1 Reset

In January 2009, I took a weeklong business trip to Stockholm. Now, before I say what I’m about to say, I want to state that I know Stockholm is a wonderful city. I know about the neat little islands, the enchanting architecture, and the lovely museums. I know they have terrific pastries. Some of my best friends are Swedes, so, for the record, I dig Stockholm.

But in January? It’s kind of . . . miserable. It’s cold. And dark. The sun barely rises and the sidewalks are piled with dirty slush. And as I walked to the Google office in Stockholm, trudging through the miserable snow in the miserable dark on the first day of that business trip, I was miserable, too.

I was about to meet with two brilliant colleagues and there was the possibility of a coffee and a pastry. But I was miserable because the three of us were working on a project that was about to die.

My friends were Serge Lachapelle, a French Canadian who had lived in Sweden for years, and Mikael Drugge, a Swede from the far north of the country. We’d met a couple of years earlier, in 2007, when Google bought their startup. The three of us started talking about an idea for a new product: videoconferencing software that could run in a web browser. In those days, multi-way video calls were a hassle, so hardly anybody used them. We thought easy video calls could change the way people worked.

So we started a project to bring this new product to life. We compiled a giant slide deck. We wanted to come up with the perfect strategy to get the rest of the company excited. I became obsessed with the idea of a 3-D virtual conference room, and we added more and more ideas on top of it. Interactive documents and agendas and whiteboards and on and on . . .

But our proposal was never quite perfect, so we just kept going and going and going. Weeks went by. Months went by. A year and a half went by. Then the global financial crisis hit. In January 2009, Google announced it was closing its offices in Trondheim, Norway, and Luleå, Sweden. I freaked out. I figured Stockholm was next, and if so, Serge and Mikael would be gone. And we still didn’t have a coherent strategy. It was now or never. I booked a trip to Stockholm.

So there I was, in January, in the dark and the slush. I slogged down crooked streets until I found the Google office. I climbed the stairs of a drab gray building—not one of Stockholm’s architectural highlights— and found Serge and Mikael waiting for me with big smiles and a cup of hot coffee.

This felt like our last chance. But what should we do? We decided to go a little crazy.

First, we set an audacious goal. It was Monday morning. By Friday, we agreed, we’d have a prototype of our software. Not a proposal, not a slide deck. A prototype. We would show everyone how great video calls in the browser could be.

Next, we decided on absolute focus. If we were going to create a prototype, we couldn’t afford a single distraction. So we said “no” to every meeting on our calendars. We logged out of email and chat. We found a conference room with no windows.

Now, what should we build? Over the past two years, we had generated a few hundred ideas, but we couldn’t design and prototype all of those in a week. So what was most important? It wasn’t the 3-D virtual conference room, or the interactive meeting tools. No, the most important idea was simple: we wanted to create the easiest video-call software on the market. So that was what we would build—a prototype that made dead-simple multi-way video calls and nothing more.

We started working. We didn’t have time to get things perfect, so we made quick decisions. We hashed out a design that was good enough. Then Mikael, an engineering genius, built the prototype. I remember the moment he got it working. He emailed me a link. I clicked and . . . boom. There was Mikael. There was Serge. Mikael said hello, Serge said hello, I said hello. We could see each other!

At the end of the week, we shared the prototype with other Googlers. It wasn’t perfect, but people instantly understood the value. It clicked. Googlers started using our software for actual meetings; it spread across the company and eventually launched to the public. Today it’s called Google Meet and has hundreds of millions of users.

I remember flying home from Stockholm and thinking, “Wow. That was different.” For me, the most special aspect of the week wasn’t what we accomplished, it was how.

During the year and a half before Stockholm, I treated the videocall project like any other project. Every week, I managed to spend a few hours on it, but I had to squeeze that effort in between other projects, meetings, and email. My focused hours were broken into tiny islands of time and scattered across the ocean of my workweek.

In Stockholm, we cleared our calendars and worked all day, every day, on the video-call project and nothing else. If the old way gave me islands of time, this was a continent. It was amazing!

Source: Totally made up based on my experience, but it seems right, doesn’t it?

There was also enough time for . . . silence. It wasn’t a normal meeting or workshop atmosphere. We weren’t constantly talking. Most of the time, we were thinking and working.

After that week in Stockholm, realization struck me—BANG!—like a two-by-four between the eyes. This didn’t have to be a once-in-alifetime moment. Why couldn’t all projects start

this way? Why couldn’t every team block distractions and focus on the most valuable core of their work? That insight set me off on a quest to redesign how teams start projects, and I’ve been on that quest ever since. Here’s the most fundamental lesson I learned along the way: 1️. Drop everything and sprint on the most important challenge until it’s done.

JZ and I have led sprints for hundreds of teams, and each time, we clear the calendar, focus on the most important challenge, and get it done. Every time, it works. My god, how it works! It’s fantastic. It’s almost supernatural. Clearing the calendar transforms what a team can accomplish.

But there is a small problem. This lesson—“Drop everything and sprint on the most important challenge until it’s done”—is easy to say. But it’s not easy to do. In the modern workplace, we’re supposed to attend meetings with teammates, managers, reports, business partners, and so on. We’re supposed to stay on top of our email and messages. We’re supposed to juggle multiple projects. And of course, we’re supposed to meet deadlines and deliver results. That’s a whole lot of “supposed to,” and it makes it tough to spend a full uninterrupted day on one project—let alone two or five or fifteen days. Unfortunately, working the way we’re supposed to work means giving up the big win of building the best possible product in exchange for the small wins of obliging teammates on a moment-to-moment basis. Replying to emails and messages instantly? Going from meeting to meeting every thirty minutes? If we don’t care about the big picture, then sure, go for it. We don’t have to say no. We don’t have to make tough decisions about our priorities. Everyone is happy . . . at least for today. But if we think we can take on ambitious projects and make them click with customers while bouncing along through business as usual, ricocheting from one context to the next, we’re fooling ourselves.

Figuring out a project’s strategy takes intense focus. Choosing the best opportunity among many options takes intense focus. Designing and building a prototype to test our hypothesis? Yup, that too requires intense focus. The normal way of working does not allow for intense focus— especially intense focus that is shared by multiple members of a team. The solution is straightforward: make the difficult decision to call time-out, drop everything—all the constant email, constant meetings, constant context switching—and come together to focus on one important goal. Start your project with sprints. Here are some techniques to help you drop everything, whether you’re planning a Foundation Sprint or any focused burst of work:

Start with the Decider

The sprint team must include the boss: the person responsible for making decisions on the project. I call this person the “Decider.” In smaller startups, it’s the CEO or a cofounder. In larger organizations, it might be the head of product, project lead, or senior vice president in charge of whatever. In short, it’s the person in charge. Chances are, you know who this is. If you’re the Decider, great. If you’re not, start by recruiting him or her. Sit down and explain why you believe the team will benefit from clearing the calendar to start the project right. Bring this book; it’ll help. In startups, getting the Decider involved is easy. As organizations grow, hierarchy gets complicated, and big decisions involve stressful high-stakes meetings. These internal pitches are a huge waste of effort and stress. If you instead get the Decider directly involved in sprints, you can focus everyone’s energy on making your project click with customers—not on playing internal politics. Not only that, but the Decider contributes his or her insight when it’s most valuable: right as the strategy is forming. It’s a great use of their time and the team’s. Once the Decider supports the idea of a sprint, he or she can pave the way for assembling the rest of the team and clearing the schedule. Then, in the sprint, the Decider will speed the process along by making key decisions. Best of all, when the sprint is over, you don’t have to convince the boss of the outcome, because the boss was in the room all along.

Form a tiny team

The Foundation Sprint compresses a whole lot of action into a short period of time. To move fast, keep the team small. I recommend no more than five people, including the Decider. Look for contrasting perspectives: Instead of a CEO and four engineers, get the CEO, the head of engineering, the head of sales, the head of product, and the head of marketing. Competing perspectives lead to better decisions, but with more than five people the returns diminish rapidly.

Declare a good emergency

I’ve dealt with many emergencies in my life. I’ve broken bones, broken teeth, ruptured my spleen, and caught swine flu. I’ve had power outages, jury duty, and maybe worst of all, slow Wi-Fi. I’ve had my flight canceled. I’ve had cars that won’t start. I’ve had to clean up after sick pets, like, RIGHT NOW. And I’ve experienced emergencies at work. I’ve been on teams who dropped everything to deal with software bugs, failing banks, and earthquakes. In each situation, I discovered that, regardless of what my calendar said, I did have several free hours today. I didn’t think twice about canceling meetings and ignoring my inbox. I sent one of those “eject lever” messages: “Hey, I’m totally focused on (the bad thing), so I have to cancel and I’ll be slow to reply until it’s done.” Nobody gave me a hard time. When bad stuff happens, we all get it. So, guess what? You can declare a state of emergency to make space for your sprints. It’s just a good emergency instead of a bad one. Good emergencies are real, but grossly underutilized, and getting the best start on a big project absolutely qualifies as a good emergency. You can even use the same style of “eject lever” message: Hey, our team is totally focused on (our most important project), so I have to cancel and I’ll be slow to reply until it’s done.

The Decider should broadcast an “eject lever” message to everyone the sprint team interacts with. Every person on the team should use an “eject lever” message to clear their schedules—and for their email and messaging out-of-office status. Once you’ve set expectations for those outside the sprint, it’s time to prepare those on the sprint team for a different way of working.

Work alone together

Once you gather your team, everyone’s natural inclination will be to have an open-ended group brainstorm. Don’t let it happen. The group brainstorm is our species’ natural response to collaboration. Gather a bunch of hunter-gatherers from the Ice Age and ask them to build a hut, and you’ll get a group brainstorm. Gather a bunch of Royal Society scientists from seventeenth-century England and ask them to come up with a business plan, and pretty soon they’ll be shouting ideas and ordering out for sticky notes and pizza. Group brainstorms are in our DNA. They’re fun—at least, for extroverts. But they don’t work. They produce mediocre ideas. They exclude those who aren’t comfortable in the group, those who don’t excel at verbal sales pitches, and those who do their best thinking in silence. So when it’s time for you and your team to collaborate, do NOT brainstorm out loud. Do NOT have an open-ended discussion. Instead, work alone together. Give each person time to generate proposals in silence, time to review others’ proposals in silence, and time to form opinions and vote in silence. Silent, parallel work is counterintuitive but profoundly effective. In Stockholm, it helped Serge, Mikael, and me do our best work. JZ and I have seen the difference it makes in sprints with more than 300 teams. In your Foundation Sprint, when you work alone together with your team, you will get more, higher-quality solutions and faster, betterconsidered decisions. You’ll find more ideas for working alone together throughout the following chapters, and specific instructions in the checklist at the end. For now, as you prepare for your sprint, let the team know this won’t be a typical meeting: in the Foundation Sprint, they’ll have time to think, and they are guaranteed an opportunity to share their opinion without fighting for airtime.

Get started, not perfect

The goal of the Foundation Sprint is not to come up with a perfect plan. The goal is to come up with a rough draft: a Founding Hypothesis that you can test right away. This means you don’t have to get your strategy right on the first try. If you make a wrong decision—or several—you’ll find out soon enough, when you show prototypes to customers. Then you can adjust. So don’t stress. Make proposals, make decisions, and move on. You’re more likely to arrive at a solution that clicks if you start fast and run lots of experiments, rather than spending forever refining your hunch in hopes of guessing your way to a perfect plan. Before your sprint begins, introduce the team to the concept of “Get started, not perfect.” During the sprint, remind them often. And hey, any time you feel stuck in life, remind yourself—and if you see me, remind me. It’s good advice, and we could all use it. Once you’ve formed a sprint team, cleared the calendar, and set expectations, you can immerse yourself in the sprint. I’ve seen teams do this hundreds of times, and people inside and outside the sprint embrace it, because focus is inspiring. But free time alone does not guarantee results. In the next chapter, we’ll start the Foundation Sprint—and I’ll share an important lesson I learned from Tom Hanks.

Start the Foundation Sprint by establishing the Basics: who your customer is, the problem you want to help them solve, your team’s unique advantages, and your strongest competition.