9 Hypothesis

On September 23, 1846, an assistant at the Berlin Observatory received a letter. He opened it. He read it. His eyes probably got big, and he probably reread it while murmuring excitedly to himself in German. I’m making up his reaction, but this next part definitely happened: That evening, following the letter’s instructions, the assistant pointed the observatory’s telescope at a precise point in the night sky. He peered through the eyepiece. And there it was. A previously undiscovered object: the planet Neptune. The author of the mystery letter was a French guy named Urbain Le Verrier. Le Verrier was a math genius. He studied irregularities in the orbit of Uranus and, in accordance with Isaac Newton’s laws of motion, predicted that there was an eighth planet causing the disruptions. He calculated exactly where this hypothetical planet would be on any given night. He needed a professional astronomer with a powerful telescope to prove his prediction, so he sent the letter to Berlin.

Discovering Neptune must have felt fantastic, and afterward, Le Verrier became a big deal in scientific circles. You probably couldn’t have a happening French mathematics party if you didn’t at least try to get Le Verrier to show up—but good luck with that, because he was already busy with a new project. Throughout the rest of the 1840s and into the 1850s, Le Verrier used his number-crunching prowess to calculate the precise orbits of all the other planets in the solar system. Then, in 1859, he dropped another bombshell on the astronomy world: his calculations revealed new orbital irregularities pointing to the existence of a ninth planet. Nope, not Pluto. Le Verrier predicted that this ninth planet, which he called Vulcan, could be found between the sun and Mercury. Around the world, astronomers followed Le Verrier’s instructions, pointed their telescopes at the sun—seriously, do NOT try that at home—and searched for Vulcan. Nothing. Then an amateur astronomer spotted a tiny dot moving across the sun. Le Verrier investigated and announced that he’d found proof of Vulcan. The press went wild. But no professionals could verify the amateur’s observation. Then another amateur spotted something, and Le Verrier kicked off another wave of excitement, but this data also could not be corroborated. This happened again. And again. For the next eighteen years, amateur astronomers looked for Vulcan, and sometimes they saw . . . something? A sunspot? A planet? Each time, Le Verrier announced that Vulcan had finally been discovered. Each time, no reputable astronomer could verify the data. No matter how often he was proved wrong, Le Verrier refused to let go of his hypothesis. He searched in vain for Vulcan until his death in 1877. There is no planet Vulcan.* In 1916, Albert Einstein solved the *Which is a bummer, because Vulcan is such a great name. So is Neptune, for that matter—it’s too bad Le Verrier didn’t get to name Uranus.

mystery of Mercury’s irregular orbit with his theory of relativity: Apparently, the sun is so massive that it bends space-time and that is what warps Mercury’s orbit. Le Verrier’s math was correct, but his desire to discover another planet blinded him from something even more astonishing: there is more to the universe than Newton’s laws. Le Verrier was doing what scientists do: stare into the unknown, make predictions, and run experiments. Sometimes the experiment works and the scientist is a hero—but more often, the prediction is incorrect. Heck, even Einstein got things wrong. In 1917, he declared that the universe is static; then, in 1929, Edwin Hubble proved that the universe is expanding.* But there is a key difference between Einstein and Le Verrier. When Einstein was proven wrong, he acknowledged the error— which he called his “biggest blunder”—and adjusted his equations. He changed his worldview. Le Verrier, on the other hand, spent eighteen years with tunnel vision on Vulcan. What if he had acknowledged that his planet hypothesis was wrong and moved on? I’m not suggesting that he would have come up with the theory of relativity, but he could have, I don’t know, worked on a different project? With his rare analytical skills, Le Verrier might have made another truly worthwhile contribution to mankind, like inventing Wordle. We’ll never know. So what, exactly, was Le Verrier’s problem? Well, he was only human. Researchers have identified patterns of mistakes that humans make, again and again, when confronted with complex situations. Our *The condensed details: Edwin Hubble proved that the universe is expanding by combining his own research with Henrietta Swan Leavitt’s model for measuring vast distances and Vesto Slipher’s discovery that distant galaxies are redshifted. And man, how great must it have felt to prove Einstein wrong? In your face, Albert!

poor brains want to conserve energy, so they take shortcuts—and they take shortcuts in predictable ways that lead to predictable errors. These predictable errors are called cognitive biases. According to those researchers, there are over 180 cognitive biases, but for my money, these are the greatest hits: • Anchoring bias: Falling in love with the first option • Self-serving bias: Favoring an approach that promotes our self-interest and ego • Overconfidence bias: Believing positive assumptions and ignoring risk • Confirmation bias: Seeking only data that confirms our belief Le Verrier fell prey to all four of these biases. When he discovered Mercury’s orbital anomaly, his first explanation was, understandably, that it was a new planet. But he became obsessed with that first explanation (anchoring bias). He became even more committed as he imagined the accolades of discovering a new planet for the second time (self-serving bias). He was certain his explanation was correct (overconfidence bias), so he put his faith in questionable data that supported what he wanted to be true (confirmation bias). Cognitive biases exert a powerful influence—and not only on nineteenth-century French mathematicians, but also on modern-day startup founders, business leaders, executives, and, well, all of us. These biases work together like a pack of wolves: anchoring bias grabs us by the collar, then self-serving, overconfidence, and confirmation biases all pile on. They push us—hard—to lock in on one option without analyzing the alternatives. And they’re invisible: once we’re under their sway, we don’t feel biased, we feel conviction. But these biases can be overcome. All you have to do is use a little science.

At the end of the Foundation Sprint, you’re like a scientist staring into the unknown. You have a formula—in your case, a project approach and differentiation—and a prediction: that people will want what you make. It’s all very logical. But as you move forward, I want you to be like Einstein, not Le Verrier. See, until your solution clicks with customers, your whole foundation is just an educated guess. And I hate to say it, but in one way or another, that guess is almost certainly wrong. Maybe you’re taking the wrong approach. Maybe you’re differentiating on speed when people care most about simplicity. Maybe you chose the wrong problem or the wrong customer. First guesses might be off by a lot or a little—but they are almost always off.

To put it another way: 9️. It’s just a hypothesis until you prove it.

So don’t call your foundation a plan just yet. A plan is a commitment. With a plan, it’s easy to feel—as Le Verrier probably felt—that if you’re wrong, your reputation is at stake. A hypothesis, on the other hand? That’s just a guess. It should feel fluid and flexible. A hypothesis is intended to be tested, proven wrong, and updated. It’s a tool for learning. We designed the Foundation Sprint to get you started fast so you can learn fast, not so you can commit fast. The final step in the Foundation Sprint is to condense all of your fundamental guesses into a Founding Hypothesis.

Just fill in the blanks in this sentence: Founding Hypothesis If we help customer solve problem with approach they will choose it over competitors because our solution is differentiation

For example, here’s the Founding Hypothesis for the game I made in high school: ouse ly M a e M Founding Hypothesis If I help high schoolers boredom with a maze game they will choose it over corn dogs & exercise because my solution is fast & humiliating solve

Here are a couple more: eet gle M o o G Founding Hypothesis If we help distributed teams solve remote meetings with “just a link” videoconferencing they will choose it over Skype & Tandberg because our solution is fast & easy to connect dra Phai Founding Hypothesis If we help industrial plant engineers solve inefficient operations with an AI autopilot they will choose it over manual adjustments because our solution is automatic & transparent

Every big project is full of predictions, but they normally remain hidden behind the scenes. With the Founding Hypothesis, you pull those predictions onto center stage, and hit them with a dazzling spotlight. And you might not like what you see. For example, imagine the Founding Hypothesis for the Skyscraper Robot from the movie Big. In this case, the Founding Hypothesis acts like Tom Hanks, pointing out the absurdity of the project’s premise. But even if your foundation is rational, plainly stating your predictions can be startling.

obot er R crap Skys Founding Hypothesis If we help kids solve play with a toy building they will choose it over G.I. Joe, LEGO, and Nintendo because our solution is architectural & motionless

When Stéph Cruchon, Genius Loci’s cofounder, looked at their Founding Hypothesis for the first time, he was taken aback. “When I saw it all in one place, it was like,

Oh my god, we have to beat Apple AND Google!? But then I thought, this isn’t so crazy. They aren’t trying to solve undiscovered local stories, so if people care about that, we have a chance to win.”

oci ius L Gen Founding Hypothesis travelers solve discovering local stories with physical signs + a website they will choose it over Google Maps & Apple Maps because our solution is rich & story-filled

If we help Every time I look at a Founding Hypothesis, I think, “Prove it!” Each prediction in the Founding Hypothesis lends itself to an existential, testable question about the project.

To make these questions plain, JZ and I give teams a scorecard that adds a question to each prediction: Do you have the right customer? Right problem? Right approach? Will people really choose your solution over the competition? Do they care about your chosen differentiators, and will they believe your solution is radically better when judged by those criteria? And of course, above all: Does it click?

Founding Hypothesis Scorecard If we help customer Right customer? solve problem Right problem? with approach Right approach? they will choose it over competitors Will they switch? because our solution is differentiation Right differentiation? Does it click?

These are essential questions. They force us to assess whether we’re doing work that matters. They force our gaze away from just what we’re building toward who we’re building it for: our customers. If you were doing things the old way, you’d have to build and launch a finished product before you answered these questions. That’s pretty freaking frightening, and it’s why most teams prefer to ignore their underlying predictions. But you don’t have to fear your predictions. You can face them immediately. Imagine if Urbain Le Verrier had access to the Millennium Falcon: he could’ve just zoomed around the solar system to see what was up. Well, that’s you. The Foundation Sprint is complete, but your experiments have just begun. In the next chapter, I’ll show you how Phaidra used tiny loops to test and adjust their solution and prove their Founding Hypothesis—and how you can do the same.