00:00:02 [SPEAKER_1]
This Week in Startups is brought to you by DigitalOcean, providing the easiest cloud platform to deploy, manage, and scale applications. Sign up today and receive a free $100 credit at do.co/twist. Squarespace: start your free trial site today. When you decide to sign up for Squarespace, use offer code TWIST to get 10% off your first purchase. And HubSpot. Join thousands of startups that are growing better with HubSpot for Startups. Learn more and get extra benefits for being a Twist listener now at HubSpot.com/ slash startups/ slash twist.

00:00:45 [SPEAKER_2]
Hey, everybody. Hey, everybody. Welcome back to This Week in Startups. I'm your host, Jason Calacanis, and we host this podcast twice a week, and we've done so for almost a decade. One of the greatest venture capital firms over the last two decades has invested in companies you know, Twitter, Etsy, Tumblr, Foursquare, Stripe, Lending Club, DuckDuckGo, Coinbase, tons of amazing, amazing startups. But what makes this firm unique is that they're not based in Silicon Valley. They're based in New York. Of course, I'm talking about Union Square Ventures, founded by my good friend Fred Wilson, and for the first time on this podcast, his co-founder, Brad Burnham. Brad, welcome to the program.

00:01:27 [Brad Burnham]
Thank you, Jason. You co-founded with Fred USV Union Square Ventures 2003 This is after 9-11 and the dot-com bust Yep Were you in venture before that or you were an operator No I was in venture I was at AT &T Ventures And Fred and I had co-invested in Multex Systems You might remember them Sure In the 90s And so we got back together to do Union Square Ventures Got it Things were looking pretty bleak in the tech business They were Yeah So good time to start actually Tough time to raise money And one of the things that lots of entrepreneurs forget is that venture capitalists have to raise money too. Yeah. It took us 80 meetings and a year to raise our first fund. And that was when Fred and I both had what I would describe as wind-aided track records in the 90s. So, I think his IRR was in the 80s and my IRR was in the high 70s. So, you'd think if you put those two together, you'd be able to raise the fund pretty quickly. Two things we were working against. One is that it was a first-time fund for the two of us. We hadn't worked together before. It was also true that at the time, most LPs thought you should have more than two partners. That's changed over the years. So, two partners, first-time fund, and we had a provocative thesis. We were going to invest in the applications layer of the web. And a lot of people lost money in the late 90s in first-time funds investing in the applications layer of the web. And so it took us a while.

00:03:06 [SPEAKER_2]
And that is one of the key things about venture-having a thesis, knowing where you're going and why you're doing it, I guess, and the ability to change that.

00:03:15 [Brad Burnham]
You know, I think so, but I don't think it's actually, perhaps it's becoming more common. Back then it wasn't that common. I think a lot of venture capital was filter feeding, you know, building networks of entrepreneurs and lawyers and others, university professors that could sort of point you at stuff and then sort of deciding what are the things that are floating by, what are the things that you like the best? And I think that kind of worked when we were really investing in pure technology. So switches and routers and chips and things like that, because a good team out of a university, you know, the way you would bring that product to market was pretty consistent. And so you could bring a lot of value to that. You had people on the bench that had built a router company before, and you could bring them to bear on this new company. And so I think it made sense then. It was a bit of a playbook. There was a playbook. But I think as we moved to the web and we moved to more of a services opportunity, then knowing where you're going made a lot of sense.

00:04:21 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah. And what else has changed since that time? And I'll earmark the time of 2003 when you raised the first fund because much has changed in venture capital in the last 15 years. When you look back on that arc, what has changed?

00:04:38 [Brad Burnham]
Wow. You can work backwards, forwards. I'm going to go backwards because I think that, you know, the. The late 90s, mid-90s, sort of the late 80s and 90s were dominated by the very strong firms that were created in the early 80s, late 70s, the names that we all know. Kleiner, Sequoia. Right. And they were still being run by the original founding partners at that time. And those original founding partners had cut their teeth doing hard technology, switches and routers, looking for intellectual property defensibility, so patents and hard technical problems, trade secrets. And as the application, as the action moved to the application, you know, when we got to the Internet in the, you know, obviously there was 1.0 in the sort of mid-90s to late-90s. And then there was sort of 2.0 from early 2000s till I would argue that we're kind of moving. We're on the tail end of that slope. So that was a lot more about different kinds of defensibility. And one of the interesting things about it, and one of the things that created an opportunity for Union Square Ventures is that a lot of people didn't want to do that. A lot of people had, a lot of firms had; that were still dominated by the original founding partners, had let their younger partners run amok a little bit in the late 90s, and they got caught in the back end of the bubble. Dot-com bust. The dot-com bust. And then the founding partners were kind of saying, 'I told you so'in the 2003 and 2004 timeframe.

00:06:28 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, let's get back to our knitting.

00:06:29 [Brad Burnham]
Right. And so that left the field open for new firms. That really had conviction about the internet and about the applications layer. And I think we were one of those firms.

00:06:43 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, and that's when companies like Twitter, 2005 period, Uber, 2009, a little bit later, Facebook.

00:06:51 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, I would distinguish. I mean, Facebook was there, Twitter was there, Uber, I think, came along a little later. And I think Uber was going after some things a little bit different. The opportunities I think about, certainly the ones that, you know, we were investors in, in 2007, we did, in the space of six months, we did Tumblr, Twitter, Zynga, and Indeed, in the space of about six months. And so, and none of those were all that competitive. I mean, Tumblr we did with Spark, and Twitter. We were the only investor in the first round because everybody else had said, you know, if you get a deal with a carrier to pay for the SMS minutes and give you a business model, then we'll look at it. But nobody felt good about it.

00:07:43 [SPEAKER_2]
It's pretty hilarious. I remember talking to Ed Williams and he was picking between Sequoia and Union Square Ventures. And he was asking me to handicap between the two firms. And of course, Fred is one of my oldest friends and dearest friends in New York. And I was a Sequoia CEO at the time. So I was like, well. Fred's gonna put a lot of work in; like he's the hardest-working guy, and then Sequoia is this legacy company; I mean, you couldn't possibly do worse, but Sequoia didn't pull the trigger. It was a 30 million valuation; you guys put in 10 for a third or something like that.

00:08:10 [Brad Burnham]
So 30 or 40 million post-me, know it was less than that, and we put in less than that. But we owned about the amount that we would have if we had done it at the numbers that you said, yeah.

00:08:20 [SPEAKER_2]
It was, yeah, it was like for 20% or something like that. That's is that your biggest hit of your whole career?

00:08:25 [Brad Burnham]
Well, as you point out, I mean, Fred and I worked on that together, but that was really Fred's deal. I'd say the, you know, in terms of returns, one of the biggest hits would be Indeed. People don't think of that as a big deal, but that company took $5 million in primary capital and then sold, you know, as a unicorn. Wow. So they only took $5 million in. Yeah, primary capital. Ultimately, they did some secondary, but in terms of operating capital, they took $5 million.

00:08:56 [SPEAKER_2]
And they sold for over a billion? Yep. Wow, that's incredible. To what do you attribute that type of efficiency?

00:09:07 [Brad Burnham]
So two things. One, they had a very strong founding team. They had a combination of Ronnie Kahan and Paul Forster. Ronnie was the tech lead and the product genius, and he built a great technology team in Austin, Texas. And Paul was one of those.really driven and almost ruthless entrepreneurs when it comes to the efficiency with which they build the business. And the other thing, so great founding team that worked very well together. The other thing is that they were actually doing something pretty simple. And the business model had been pioneered by Google. It was paid search, but it was paid search in a very specialized niche that wasn't being well served by the dominant search engines. Employment ads were often buried underneath essentially in databases. So you had to actually tease out all the data rather than in the, I guess they called it the dark web back then, but it's not that dark of a web. Anyway, you had to scrape it and normalize it. Right. So Google didn't really do a good job of that, finding all of the opportunities and displaying them in an easily consumable way. But they did a great job of defining a business model. So they just basically used that business model and a new corpus of data.

00:10:31 [SPEAKER_2]
All right. When we get back from this quick break, I want to talk to you about crypto. Huge. And you guys were so early to that. Mega early. You guys got involved in Ethereum before it launched?

00:10:44 [Brad Burnham]
No, and we haven't really been involved in Ethereum, but we were the first, I think, in the first institutional round of Coinbase.

00:10:51 [SPEAKER_2]
All right, so when we get back, let's talk a little bit about crypto and if you're still believers in it or where you stand after this incredibly tumultuous two years in the crypto world when we get back on This Week in Startups. If you want the easiest cloud platform in the world to deploy, manage, and scale your applications, you're in luck. Because DigitalOcean has you covered. Over 150,000 businesses use them, and that makes them one of Inc.'s world's fastest growing startups. You get free round-the-clock tech support, and that's for all customers, regardless of spend. And there's a huge community that shares resources and tutorials. So you're going to get right in there and be up and running very quickly. It's business-ready and it's ready to scale with you. They have very straightforward billing, and you're not going to get dinged because you're in a different geo than other people. And you're always going to know what you'll pay. You'll never get dinged with that surprise bill like other providers. And their flat pricing structure is critically important for you. You don't want to get dinged because you're in a different geo than other people. Here's an incredible customer testimony from Content Ignite. Since moving to DigitalOcean, our setup is ultimately more capable than when we had before the migration. Downtime has become a rarity and our hosting costs have decreased by more than what?90%.Incredible. I hear this all the time from my startups. They save a ton of money and they get better service from DigitalOcean. I know this because Mitch Wehner, my pal, was on This Week in Startups eight years ago in 2010. When he was in marketing. And he said, what should I do with my career, J. Cal? And I said, hmm, why don't you go to Techstars or Y Combinator or another incubator, find the best startup you can and ask them if you can join. Well, he did. And he found DigitalOcean and he joined. Since that time, they've raised a ton of money from incredible venture firms like Andreessen Horowitz. And here is their offer just for the This Week in Startups community. You're going to get a Hyundai. A C note, a hundred dollar credit. Just go to do.co slash twist. Do .co slash T-W-I-S-T. That's cool that they got do .co. That's a good domain name. So do .co slash twist. Grab that hundy. Get that hundred dollars. Put it in your pocket. Go ahead and sign up for DigitalOcean. It's a great service. We use it. We love it. Congratulations to DigitalOcean and Mitch on all your tremendous success. And thanks for supporting This Week in Startups. That means a lot to me. Okay, let's get back to this incredible episode. Welcome back to This Week in Startups. I'm your host, Jason Calacanis. My guest today is Brad Burnham. You can follow him, @ BradUSV, because that's his firm, Union Square Ventures, that he co-founded back in 2003 after working at AT&T. Was it Bell Labs back then?

00:13:42 [Brad Burnham]
At Bell Labs, but I worked for a firm called AT&T Ventures, which was an independent venture capital partnership that was created to help nurture some Bell Labs technology and try and commercialize it. So, I worked a lot with teams out of the labs.

00:13:57 [SPEAKER_2]
Do you believe in corporate VC? Now that you're on the other side, do you think it's something every company should do? Or do you think it's something best left to the independent professional venture capitalists?

00:14:13 [Brad Burnham]
So, I think there are some corporations that do it pretty well. I think the corporations that do it best, and there are fewer and fewer of these, are the ones where the founders were entrepreneurs themselves and not professional managers, and so they appreciate what it means to build a company a little bit. I think that it's a really tough way. It's really tough to create synergies with corporations. I mean, everybody talks about that. Everybody says that's the goal of corporate VC. But one of my experiences at AT &T Ventures, and it's funny because I just ran into the guy who ran AT &T's network. His name is Frank Ianna. And back in the mid-90s, AT &T Ventures was an investor in a number of routing companies, including Juniper Networks. We tried to get Frank to test this equipment and potentially deploy it in the AT&T network. It was really hard to get him to do it. It's for a funny reason, but it makes a lot of sense when you think about it. He was measured on EBITDA performance, and Cisco was willing to discount their routers maybe 60% for AT&T. And the startups couldn't afford to give him a cash discount. They needed the cash flow, but they were willing to give him warrants. Sprint funded most of the build out of their network by taking warrants in the startup companies that they really enabled by implementing their technology in the network. And AT&T could have done the same thing, but didn't. So the point is that when you're trying to create those synergies in a corporate venture capital world, the incentives are all misaligned. There's generally no way for a senior executive in a corporation to get credit for creating balance sheet appreciation, but they're usually measured on EBITDA. So it's a tough combination of incentives.

00:16:21 [SPEAKER_2]
It also seems really difficult to give this group of executives 20% of whatever the growth of the investments are when this other group is getting some other compensation. And then what happens if they hit something like Twitter, where you wind up throwing off a billion, the 20% winds up being a billion dollars or something. This could really throw people for a loop. The CEO's like, I hired you folks, and now you're getting that. So most of those corporate ones don't give 20% carry. They give people salaries. I think that's true.

00:16:54 [Brad Burnham]
Some of them have a phantom carry program. Phantom carry. We actually had an interesting We were an independent venture capital partnership at AT &T with a sole limited partner. Part of the reason for that is that I had earlier been working with a team out of Bell Labs, and I'd spun it out and was very insistent on having real minority equity rights. I knew that AT&T would own a majority of that entity because of the technology, but I wanted minority equity rights because I didn't want the possibility of AT&T shutting it down or, you know, I wanted to be able to have a real run. And in order to get that done, it had to go through the board at AT&T. And this is a tiny little, I mean, we're talking about a company that maybe had an annual burn of million bucks. And so getting it spun out was a pain. But the guy who did it was a guy named Bob Kavner, who was the CFO at the time. And it took him so much energy to push that through. He said, 'I never want to do this again.'So I'm going to create a venture capital group that can sponsor these spinouts. I'm going to create a structure and I'm going to get out of the loop. But what happened was The, he decided based on the experience of, you know, getting a real, you know, Delaware corporation, a real C Corp, positioning it to take external equity, going through that whole process. He said, well, I'm going to create a venture capital group that looks like a venture capital group. So we were actually an independent venture capital group. We had a fee and a carry, and we made all of our own investment decisions. And I think that worked really well for AT&T Ventures back in the 90s. It was created in '92 and it ran through '99. During that time, we put about $350 million to work and returned about $1.2 billion. But as you say, toward the end of that, there's a series of management changes at AT&T, and they start looking at that and saying, well, wait a minute. Those economics are really pretty good, and maybe we should do that ourselves. So they took the $1.2 billion when they took over the activity. I took it over in about '99 and decided that they wanted to do significant investments, not these three to five million dollar investments, but we're AT&T, we want to move the needle. So they went long in late '99 with a billion two. It didn't work out very well.

00:19:27 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, timing, super important, isn't it?

00:19:31 [Brad Burnham]
I do think it's important. I think there are technology cycles. I think that there are There are times when there is really great opportunity in the venture business, and there are times when it's really tough. I actually think we're in a time that's pretty tough, particularly if you're trying to do consumer-facing web services.

00:19:52 [SPEAKER_2]
And why is it tough?

00:19:55 [Brad Burnham]
I think we are living in a world of very rapid consolidation around very dominant network effects, and that would be Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon. These are great companies. I have a great deal of respect for them, but they have enormous advantages relative to startups. We've seen a number of examples where we've pioneered a market, an opportunity, a space, a technology. Only to find that when one of these larger players enters that market, it's really hard to compete. They have huge advantages in terms of distribution.

00:20:33 [SPEAKER_2]
I mean, if you're in, if your Facebook comes to mind with stealing stories right out from under Snapchat. Sure.

00:20:39 [Brad Burnham]
Um, you know, well, it's not, I mean, I think it's not, no, I don't copy a pixel by pixel like that and take three swings at a bat.

00:20:48 [SPEAKER_2]
Oh, I thought that was slow.

00:20:50 [Brad Burnham]
Um, you know, I, I mean, I, I think it's a, I think that it's, you know, unfortunately, it's the way our market is structured. It's their responsibility to their shareholders to take advantage of the opportunities that they have to return as much as they can to their shareholders.

00:21:06 [SPEAKER_2]
But we haven't seen copying like that, like wholesale copying in a, it's in common.

00:21:13 [Brad Burnham]
I'm not going to, I'm not going to actually, I don't, I think it's a bigger problem. I think it's a, it's a market structure problem. And I think that. I think you're going to actually see increasing calls. You're already seeing an antitrust case against Apple in the App Store. You're going to see more of these. Obviously, there's a lot of conversation among policymakers about, are these institutions too strong? Are they too powerful? Are they reshaping the market?

00:21:36 [SPEAKER_2]
How do you think about that? I'm curious.

00:21:38 [Brad Burnham]
So the answer is, I think they are. But I think they got there legitimately. And I think that my experience of policymakers attempting to change the structure of markets historically has been pretty bad. So you can think of an IBM antitrust case that ended up being dismissed, a Microsoft antitrust case that really didn't have an impact.

00:22:08 [SPEAKER_2]
Other than probably driving the world's greatest entrepreneur at the time, Bill Gates, out of the business, just making him so hated globally that he just was like, 'enough.'Uh, I think he left because the joy got pulled out of the business during that antitrust thing. That's my theory; it became so arduous to be so hated-everybody's saying you have too much power, it's like, 'you know if you guys don't want me here, I'm just gonna go give all my money away and solve other problems.'

00:22:35 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, I mean, I'm not going to speculate on his motivation, but um, I think the more interesting thing to talk about is what actually did happen? You know, why? I mean, we don't think about Microsoft as a dominant incumbent today.

00:22:49 [SPEAKER_2]
Why not?

00:22:50 [Brad Burnham]
What happened? What changed? And it wasn't, okay, you could argue that forcing Microsoft to unbundle the browser, you know, allowed the internet to emerge. So that may have been a single policy move that they got right. But, you know, I don't think that the antitrust case that dragged out over 10 years ultimately really changed the structure of the market. What changed the structure of the market was the emergence of the internet. And that led to a shift in venue, if you will, from the desktop to the web. And when we moved processing to the web and we started to create a set of consumer services that were delivered from the web to a relatively you know, simple browser, all the action was on the server side. And so if I'm building an app on the server, I'm not going to use a binary operating system. I can't control my destiny. I can't control, I can't make changes. I'm going to use an open source operating system, right? So Linux became the dominant operating system on the browser side. Microsoft couldn't open source Windows, couldn't compete directly for that business.

00:24:01 [SPEAKER_2]
So the marketplace is stronger, and it may have dethroned the king.

00:24:05 [Brad Burnham]
Who knows? I'm speculating. I'd argue the same thing happened with IBM. If you think about what happened with IBM, they were playing catch-up in the PC world, and they did it by outsourcing all the components, and that had a de facto effect of creating these standard interfaces between the components, and all of a sudden it was possible to create a PC, for anyone to create a PC, and they outsourced an operating system from Microsoft. And that is what, and then that also ended up in a shift in venue, because we went from time sharing on the mainframe to distributed computing on the PC. And it was market forces again. Market forces.

00:24:43 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, so we look at this Facebook situation. Before the break, you mentioned crypto, yeah. All right. When we get back from this quick break, we'll talk about crypto on This Week in Startups. Check out Launch Festival Sydney. Check out Launch Angel Summit. We love it because we can get a beautiful, customizable, mobile-friendly, sign up instantly. And it's all designed with search engine optimization built-in. You don't have to hire another consultant. And it's free and secure hosting with 24-7 award-winning customer support. We love Squarespace. They've been a long-running supporter of This Week in Startups. And the product is exceptional. Go to squarespace.com right now and get a free trial. When you're ready to launch, use the offer code TWIST, T-W-I-S-T, and you will save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. I know you don't need to save the money if you're listening to this program in all likelihood, but I want you to use that TWIST code if you can. And I want you to do me a favor right now. A lot of people say, 'hey, J. Cal, thanks for the podcast.'Thanks for doing it twice a week for 10 years. Is there any way I can help you? Yes, there is a way. Go use Squarespace. And go ahead and say thank you at Squarespace on Twitter for supporting independent media like This Week in Startups. It's an amazing, amazing product. And by the way, they now support over 200 extensions. So if you want to be baller like me and do founder .university or angel .university or use any of those cool new extensions, get on there. Try them out. There's lots of beautiful new extensions and, of course, all those great customizable templates. And one thing people don't know is that Squarespace, some people don't know, Squarespace put in incredible e-commerce functionality. So you can sell stuff, open up a store, no biggie deal. Okay, back to the program. Welcome back. My guest today, Brad Burnham. And we're talking about the state of the big four and historically antitrust market forces. Now we're here. We're looking at crypto. We're looking at Facebook being super powerful. Facebook seems to be the one directly in the crosshairs.

00:26:59 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, I think they're directly in the crosshairs in part because politicians are very sensitive to things that affect politics.

00:27:06 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah.

00:27:07 [Brad Burnham]
And so I think that's probably the reason that Facebook is being called down to Washington. But I think that look at Amazon. If you're a manufacturer of paper towels, You know, you're shipping a lot of paper towels through Amazon today and Amazon decides, hmm, paper towels. I can have those made in China for less than, you know, I'm paying. I can pick up some margin here.

00:27:33 [SPEAKER_2]
Amazon basic towels. Here we go.

00:27:34 [Brad Burnham]
There you go. And so I think, you know, being able to direct demand to any supplier that you can negotiate with and then even to yourself, I think that's an incredibly powerful position.

00:27:48 [SPEAKER_2]
And I guess their counter is, well, we only have the small percentage of overall commerce, so therefore it's not a big deal. And it's in the best interest of consumers because we're lowering prices.

00:27:59 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, I think you could make that argument with Google and with Apple. I mean, a lot of these, Facebook is free, right?

00:28:06 [SPEAKER_2]
Apple phones are not getting free. You can't make it with Apple, though. Their prices keep going up. Isn't that amazing? Just as a sidebar, that Apple has been able to raise the price of the iPhone like $100 every 18 months and they're just boiling us like frogs?

00:28:21 [Brad Burnham]
Are you Android or Apple? I'm actually Android. Are you always Android or did you go? Always been Android. I grew up working with Bell Labs, working with Unix, believing in open source, believing in open systems, believing that open systems create. Emergent, decentralized, bottom-up innovation. I have a huge conviction that that's the best kind of innovation. And so I've always wanted to work with the most open systems. Neither of these systems are particularly open, but Android is a little bit more open than Apple. You know, you could actually make the argument it may not, you know, there are things about the openness in this world that, you know, end up being somewhat problematic, but I still-Like viruses and hacks and all this stuff. Yeah. I'd still rather- be um in an open system; I think that you, I think you have a faster pace of innovation and all that, yeah, I mean the new Pixel phone always seems like they're just slightly better than the iOS devices. I don't know, you know, I've never actually compared them, alright?

00:29:24 [SPEAKER_2]
So let's get into it. Crypto, you guys were very early; you did Coinbase when...

00:29:29 [Brad Burnham]
I don't know, a couple years back, dates yeah, more than a couple of years.

00:29:33 [SPEAKER_2]
We've been in it for a while, and you got early conviction around crypto Because you believe in open source, bottom-up. And this is as open-source, bottom-up as it's ever been in the history of mankind. These were anonymous white papers with nobody in charge; consensus building for how the system runs. How does a venture capitalist capitalize on a system written by a pseudonym? And on a white paper where nobody's in charge and whoever gets the most hashes gets to decide what happens next. I mean, it seems like the place VCs can't participate where it's harder.

00:30:16 [Brad Burnham]
Is it? You know, I think if you carry it to its logical conclusion, you can make that argument that that, that it will be impossible to, um, get a venture-style return. I think we're a long way from that today. Um, I think that, um, so there's, you know, there's, there's fun, there's foundational change. Um, there's layer two chains and then there's applications or dApps that are being built on top of these chains. I think that, um, I think we're going to be in a period, you're one of the few people that remember centralized services on the internet like AOL and CompuServe. I find myself trying to explain to people that we're sort of in the 1993 timeframe in crypto. We still have a very immature infrastructure. You know, when people say, what can you do with crypto that you can't do with a normal database? The answer is everything you can do with crypto, you can do better with a normal database today. And except distributing trust, which you can't do with a centralized database.

00:31:34 [SPEAKER_2]
Why is distributing trust such a mind-blowing, laudable, and or important innovation? Because I know that you believe that, and maybe some other people believe it less. But what is it because that seems to be the core of the people who came up with it. They wanted something that had this different trust model rather than trust in the government.

00:31:53 [Brad Burnham]
Well, I don't think I mean we could talk about or monetary policy, you know, whether or not it's monetary policy. I think that Crypto is so much more important than currency or than monetary policy. I think it's a model for developing applications in a much more decentralized way that allow for much greater participation at the edges of that innovation, that platform. So go all the way back to, since we're having fun going back here, go all the way back to Microsoft and think about the world that existed in the mid-90s, there was probably 2,500 PC software ISVs, independent software vendors, producing word processors and spreadsheets and everything else. You had to pick one of 12 different word processors in the 80s. By the end of the 90s, there was one. Yeah.

00:32:47 [SPEAKER_3]
No more WordPerfect.

00:32:48 [Brad Burnham]
So think about how that happened, right? You had a platform that enabled all of this innovation on top of it, but had the luxury of being able to sit there and look at the innovation that was taking place on top of it. You mentioned Facebook in a similar vein. And then deciding what they wanted to internalize. And over the years, everything got sucked down into either the office suite or the operating system. And so. That actually, again, paradoxically, was good for consumers. Why? Because it standardized the interfaces, it standardized the user experience, it made it more accessible to more people.

00:33:24 [SPEAKER_2]
Interoperability, like you have a Word doc, I have a Word perfect, we don't have to buy a third piece of software to translate it.

00:33:29 [Brad Burnham]
So it was good for consumers. It was bad for innovation. And so we're in a similar place right now at the applications layer of the web where you have these dominant players that are limiting innovation. So, personal experience, as you know, we were investors in Twitter and early on Twitter was an open API, remember? And so we had Tweety and TweetDeck and all those things. And so you have-Twitter didn't have its own iOS or Android app. Right. And so you have people building applications on top of an open database. But when Twitter figured out that, gosh, we need a business model and the business model is going to be advertising, so we have to control the way in which our content is being displayed, all of a sudden it didn't work, right? And so what did they do? They basically cut off all those value adders. So the reason trustlessness is important isn't about, you know, not trusting a state. It's about not trusting a platform. Got it. So you, you know, I think that if you believe, you know, there are no developers who are going to build on top of a closed platform today naively, right? They've seen it too many times.

00:34:44 [SPEAKER_2]
No, I mean, you also had this with Zynga and Pincus and watching what happened with him and Zuckerberg and they were friends or so, so he thought maybe, but they were. They knew each other well. He had negotiated the deals personally with Mark Zuckerberg to be on the platform.

00:34:57 [Brad Burnham]
Yes. It's an incredible luxury as a dominant platform to be able to watch the innovation that takes place on top of the platform and choose how and when you're going to incorporate that innovation into your revenue streams. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I just think that, I mean, that is the way capitalism works. I'm a capitalist. But I think that that creates the opportunity for the next turn of the wheel, the next wave of innovation. And I think that I have a great deal of faith in entrepreneurs and in engineers and innovators generally. And I think they will go to, at this point, having watched this movie too many times. They're going to go to a platform that they know can't be evil.

00:35:46 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah. They're not going to buy into building for Facebook for the seventh time and then have Zuckerberg pull the ball away like Lucy with Charlie Brown and wind up on your back again. Like now my understanding is, Facebook wants to get developers to start doing things with them again. And it's like, really? Again, you're going to try to, I mean, fool me once, fool me twice, fool me for the 17th time. Like you've screwed every business partner you ever had, internally and externally at Facebook. And now you think people are going to buy in? No. So it's that distributed. Nobody owns it. We're all going to vote based on our hash power, whatever.

00:36:22 [Brad Burnham]
There's going to be a lot of experimentation on how these things are governed, and even whether they need to be governed. There's a governance mechanism called forking that works, but it's painful and expensive. There's a lot of people working on much more elegant governance mechanisms. I think the ideal implementation of a blockchain is going to be one where governance is actually relatively limited. People can trust it because the architecture is trustable.

00:36:51 [SPEAKER_2]
It is one thing about the Bitcoin protocol that we have to sort of tip our hats to is that we're sitting here in year 10 or whatever it is, and it's still rocking and solid. And yeah, sure, it went to 19 and back down to $3,000. Putting that aside, it hasn't been hacked yet.

00:37:08 [Brad Burnham]
It's obviously been manipulated, but it hasn't been hacked. The price movement. You know, that's certainly not Bitcoin's fault. No. Right. It hasn't been hacked. It's a really impressive architecture. It's a really impressive design. I wouldn't describe it as an impressive technology. The technology was, you know, I mean. With six different components put together. Yeah. You know, I was just thinking about what is the quote about artists that, you know.

00:37:38 [SPEAKER_2]
Immature poets steal. Immature poets copy.

00:37:41 [Brad Burnham]
Mature poets steal. Right. Great artists steal. Great artists steal. So Satoshi actually did steal a lot of technology. So from various cryptographic work that was going on. But put it together in this unique way that demonstrated that you could create a pixel, you could create, not a pixel, you could create a digital bit that was provably unique. And that was the huge innovation because once you have a bit that's provably unique, you can make it programmable, you can start to build all of the things that we've started to see building around it. And that was a huge innovation.

00:38:24 [SPEAKER_2]
When you saw these ICOs happening, I guess this would be two years ago now, They started to get pretty violent and there was this whole, I guess, meme or theory going around. It's the end of the venture business. Founders are going to be able to raise $100 million on a white paper. And since that time, 2,000 ICOs, like 80% have gone dark. Nobody knows where the money is. The SEC is rounding people up. I know you've worked with the SEC a bit on crypto. What did you think when those ICOs were going on about their viability? And what do you think about where they wound up? And then we'll get into where they're going. Take yourself back into that moment in time when that VC's over.

00:39:11 [Brad Burnham]
I mean, you're asking me. Bottom line is that it's really hard for me to reflect on what I thought exactly at that moment because I've been able to watch how the movie played out. So I'll just tell you that. I think there was a lot of naive enthusiasm about the architecture. Joe Ito used to say that the internet is a belief system. And we started to see people losing faith in that belief system. And then there was this new idea that all of a sudden, you know, channeled a lot of that energy and a lot of, you know, sophisticated developers and others who had built on top of platforms and been screwed said, oh, wait a minute, there's another way that we can think about this. And there's a, you know, so there's a lot of enthusiasm around it. It also kind of self-inflated in the sense that a lot of people who bought Bitcoin early had paper gains, actually real gains, because it was tradable in and out. And they wanted to diversify. And so that fueled a lot of that money – They had the monopoly money. They were just recirculating it. Never landed. And so I think there's a lot of things that inflated that bubble. But it's, you know, I think people lost sight of the fact that these are not only very early stage companies, it's a very early stage technology. So that, you know, that you had very small teams with very little experience of actually building distributed systems, raising money at highly inflated prices when the deployment platform wasn't even capable of supporting them or supporting them at scale.

00:41:06 [SPEAKER_2]
Almost like the 1999 IPOs, 1998, 1999, 2000 IPOs happened in 1993 and 1994 when we were talking about the Information Superhighway. Bingo. Just listening to you talk about it.

00:41:18 [Brad Burnham]
And now you end up with a bunch of companies that have a hundred million dollars.

00:41:23 [SPEAKER_2]
And there's no web.

00:41:25 [Brad Burnham]
There's no browser yet. Right. And then what? So, you know, you actually see some of these well-endowed crypto projects actually investing in the infrastructure, actually in a venture style, making investments in the infrastructure, which I think is great. But, yeah. So is there a role for venture capitalists? We spend a lot of time thinking about how we can be helpful to the companies that we work with. And a lot of it is just pattern recognition and networks and connecting people with ideas or people or whatever. And they still need that, even if the money seems to be free. But by the way, I don't think the money is still free.

00:42:09 [SPEAKER_2]
No. No, this was like some mirage. I tried to explain this to some founders who were lamenting like that they didn't get the $100 million Masayoshi-san check or they didn't get the $200 million ICO. And I said, you know, in life you can see weird behaviors happen that are the outliers. And then you think that the outlier is something that you're entitled to. That would be like me waking up and being like, I bought a lottery ticket and I didn't win. But I know somebody who won the lottery. You have to understand, fundamentally, you're still in a lottery. Just because some big, huge whale like Masayoshi-san comes in and puts $100 million into a couple of companies doesn't mean that that's the new standard. He's doing something different that hasn't been done before. What do you think of that impact? I know you guys have been in business with Masayoshi-san before. As a matter of fact, I knew Masa when Fred was investing with SoftBank. That was a long time ago.

00:43:10 [Brad Burnham]
I'm not sure we've done a deal at Unisquare Ventures. Well, yeah. So, okay. So, I mean, if you came in late, a lot of people came in late to deals that we were in that we weren't really involved with. But anyway, so I think it's going to, you know, I think we're in a period of consolidation. I think there have been There have been some good investment opportunities. My partner Albert really figured out that as we started consolidating, there was going to be a need for small companies to have infrastructure that allowed them to compete more effectively with larger companies. So things like MongoDB and Twilio were things that he led, which I would have missed because I wasn't thinking in terms of, you know.how the consolidation was going to affect, you know, the applications layer. And then I think, you know, we have a new partner, Rebecca, who's done a really good job of getting us into some of the sort of new full stack e-commerce services that I think, you know, are going to do well for some time. But I think that the consolidation is going to continue. And I think that one of the embarrassing things about the way the venture capital business works is that it often, there's a pool of capital that comes into the market as a result of extraordinary returns. There were extraordinary returns in the sort of Web 2.0 era when some of those very large networks were getting liquidity, Facebook and Twitter and others. And the money came in. The money went to work, and it kind of went to work after the puck had moved on. And I think that, you know, you're seeing people bid up prices for consumer services that are in very competitive markets where there's a dominant incumbent. And I think that's going to be a tough one to make a living. And I think even e-commerce sites, eventually we're going to start to see, you know, players like Amazon, you know, being more and more aggressive in those markets is gonna make it tough to deliver a return. I mean, even if you think you're completely outside of Facebook's, what some friends might have called kill zone, if you think you're completely outside of Facebook's kill zone, I wouldn't be completely surprised to see them offer a financial services product, right? I mean, they have a They have a platform. They have a reach. They have the ability to deliver that product.

00:45:50 [SPEAKER_2]
I'm one of the early investors in Robinhood. Yeah. And Wealthfront. Oh, no. Right. What prevents them? Yeah. I mean, focus, I guess, would be what we typically would say, right? Like, do they have the focus to focus on this and make it happen? And sometimes they do. Sometimes they don't. Google Plus, they couldn't focus their way to success. Waymo, perhaps they will. Android, they did. Interesting question. What is Amazon's focus? Yeah, it seems like they have two, Amazon Prime and AWS. Because I would think Amazon Prime is kind of the catch-all for rabid consumers moving 90% of their purchasing to Amazon.

00:46:29 [Brad Burnham]
Right. Like becoming a primary purchasing option. If you think of Facebook's focus as social networking or news or invitations or something, yeah, financial services would be out of focus. Connecting people, yeah. If you think of Facebook's, uh, focus as connecting people or or connecting people with services being a switch as opposed to being a provider um of everything I don't see why it's you know necessarily out of focus yeah why wouldn't you add you know the ability to send Facebook dollars back and forth and zip zip zip all right when we get back and we finish up uh Union Square puts out its thesis, we're going to go over your thesis from April 2018 and how it's played out since and how you think it will shape up in 2019.

00:47:13 [SPEAKER_2]
We'll make it back on this week in startups. We've been using HubSpot here at Launch for a couple of years and we love it. It's incredible for marketing, you know that, but also my sales team, my sales team loves, loves it for CRM. It's fast, it's intuitive, it's robust, and they have a great program called HubSpot.for startups. This is a program that helps startups grow and scale faster and better. It's super cool. It includes a ridiculously steep discount on the HubSpot growth platform up to 90% off for startups in this education and programming and access to all HubSpot integrations at a startup-friendly cost. Thousands of startups are already using HubSpot for sales, marketing, and services. And you're going to learn from amazing mentors associated with HubSpot for startups. If you want to take advantage of HubSpot for startups, head to HubSpot.com. Com slash startups slash twist and read more. That URL again, HubSpot.com, H-U-B-S-P-O-T, HubSpot.com slash startups slash twist. If you use the twist link, you will be entered into a drawing for a free ticket to HubSpot's 20,000-person live event called Inbound, which is happening September 3rd through 6th in Boston. What a great deal. So go to, again, HubSpot.com slash startup slash twist. We use HubSpot. We love it. It's incredible software. It's going to help your company grow, and that's what it's all about. Okay, let's get back to this amazing podcast. Welcome back to This Week in Startups. I'm your host, Jason Calacanis. My guest today, none other, Brad Burnham from Union Square Ventures, founded in 2003 with my good friend Fred Wilson. And what an amazing run. Etsy, Tumblr, Foursquare, Stripe. Don't see Kickstarter on this list. Hmm, what's going on in my research department? You guys are also in Kickstarter. Yes, we are. That's kind of a quixotic one. They never want to IPO. They want to run the business forever. They have a lower margin business. They're pretty generous, only charge 5%.Can you ever get your return on that? Or is it gonna be dividends if they refuse to go public forever?

00:49:33 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, I think that's the answer that they will divide out a return for us and And I think it's actually, you mentioned earlier when we were talking about crypto, is crypto a good place for venture capitalists? And there's a bunch of the same pressures in the crypto world. So I think of Kickstarter as having trained us to work with entrepreneurs that want to be in it for the long run, want to be relatively careful about the rents that they extract out of their network, and want to create sort of sustainable value over time. I don't think of it as their problem to figure out how to deliver a return on that. I think that's our problem.

00:50:16 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, the rake is, I know Bill Gurley talks about this a lot, like if you take too much rake, you could see what happened today. I think Discord, that gaming chat service, is going to deliver games, but they're going to deliver it 90-10, 90% of the revenue to the publisher. So anybody else who's taking 30% in their app store, okay, now maybe the new VIG is 10%.So I think the way they say that in the business is, your margin is my opportunity. How do your LPs feel about that, though, in a Kickstarter? How do you explain that to them when they're like, 'You got Kickstarter, it's done like $3 billion, oh my God, it's gone through that platform, and when are we going to get our billion? Because that is part of what you do, right? You're like a proxy for the LPs and the founders.

00:51:03 [Brad Burnham]
Absolutely. Innovation always, by definition, finds efficiencies and allows for the delivery of a service at lower prices. And so I think the business of venture capital is cannibalizing itself. And I think that our job is to do it early and to be on the front end of that as opposed to the back end of that. And if we're on the front end of that, I think we can deliver very attractive returns as we improve the efficiency in various markets.

00:51:41 [SPEAKER_2]
You guys keep to the $300, $400 million fund size? We do. Why? Actually smaller. $250, yeah.

00:51:51 [Brad Burnham]
Most of our funds are in the $150, high end is sort of $200. And we have We have a paired fund model now where we've raised a core fund and an opportunity fund at the same time. And as opposed to raising one larger fund, I think it's a better model in terms of being sort of respectful of our LP's money because we charge lower fees on the opportunity fund. We expect. You know, lower, we expect more stable returns, but lower returns in the opportunity fund. And we charge lower fees on that. And we expect outsized returns on the core fund. And we charge traditional fees on that.

00:52:36 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah. What do you think of companies staying private for so long? Obviously, it's been a polarizing debate amongst our community.

00:52:48 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah.

00:52:50 [SPEAKER_2]
Is it good hygiene or bad hygiene?

00:52:55 [Brad Burnham]
You know, put that in the context of crypto. They don't stay private very long at all in crypto. Buy as many coins as you like now. Pre-buy them. Pre-sell. Anyway, I think that. I like being a minority investor. I like not being a control investor. I like knowing that we're not successful unless the team's successful. And I don't think it's our call about whether they stay private or go public. And I think that there will be creative ways to get liquid. And there's always a secondary market. USV have almost always, in some of our more successful companies, sold on the way up in the private markets prior to an IPO. And we left some money on the table, but it felt responsible and very straightforward. I think that's great.

00:53:56 [SPEAKER_2]
So just pair your position 10%, 20% each time you get that opportunity? Yep, about that. Yeah. That seems wise.

00:54:04 [Brad Burnham]
You know, it's worked. You could argue that you could look at places where we left money on the table and you could argue that we didn't. The other thing we do pretty much as a rule is when a company does get liquid, when it traditionally goes public, we'll get off the board and we'll sell, not sell, we'll return the shares to the LPs. It's up to them what to do. It's up to them what to do. A lot of, you know, there is, you know, if you look at the more successful, particularly in some of the applications layer sort of network effect, winner takes most opportunities. That was not a great financial move for us. It was a good financial move for the LPs because they were able to ride that stock if they chose to. But so a lot of firms will hang on to stock for longer. We think of it as our job to really work with the entrepreneurs early. And there's a point at which we are of a lot less value to them and it feels like that's a good time for us to step aside.

00:55:15 [SPEAKER_2]
What do you think of secondary transactions with founders? Is there a moment in time that's too early for them to be doing that? I think of that secret app. I don't think you guys were investors in that, but they took out some like. They basically held the VCs who wanted to invest in that Series A or Series B hostage and were like, unless we get like three million each, we're not doing it with you. And I think Redpoint was the one who basically was like, okay, fine. We really want to do this deal. We'll give you each two or three million bucks. And these schmucks showed up with like Ferraris the next week at their office. And people were like, 'Hey, dummies, like what message does that send to your team that you just drove up in a freaking Ferrari and, you know, with the money before we're even profitable?

00:55:54 [Brad Burnham]
Not a great look. So it's happening a lot more. Obviously, as companies wait longer to go public, it's going to continue to happen. I think you could be ideological about it either way. And I think that'd probably be a mistake. I remember, you know. Working with one of uh a really neat company that we worked with early on, you'll remember Delicious, of course Josh and um loved it so you know that was a situation where it was at that time and gosh it must have been in the 2007-8 time it was 2006 because we had So Weblogs Inc I think at the same time it was Flickr.

00:56:39 [SPEAKER_2]
And Delicious went to Yahoo, and we went to AOL. And I think Flickr got $25 million, Delicious got 20 or 25. And we got 25 and then sold the software for $5. And people thought those companies were so dumb for buying six-person companies for $30 million. They were like, 'Yahoo is so dumb.'They bought Flickr for $25 million.

00:56:59 [Brad Burnham]
Well, I think Delicious could have had a longer run. I think it's tough to build a company like that inside a company like Yahoo.'But, you know, that was really early in this whole conversation about secondaries. And, you know, Fred and I had both been raised in a world where you didn’t do that. And so we didn’t even think about it at the time. But Josh Schachter was in a position where, you know, that was a meaningful, life-changing amount of money to him.

00:57:29 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, solo founder owns 60, 70%.

00:57:31 [Brad Burnham]
Right. So it was a big deal. It was a big deal for him. And there was, and so. And we're minority investors. And if you have an entrepreneur that really wants to sell or feels like they need to sell, they’re not fungible. You can’t just replace them. Known what we know now, and had we had the experience of watching responsible secondaries happening, we would have offered a secondary and said, 'Hey, let's take the pressure off. Let's solve your near-term problems.'

00:58:09 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, here's $2 million, here's $4 million, buy your loft, pay down your student debt, whatever it is. It seems to be quite reasonable, $1, $2, $3 million, $4 million. When you start getting to $10 or $20 million, listen, when that kind of money comes into your bank account, you start looking at it. You start wondering what to do with it. You start talking to the money manager. You start thinking about planes. You start thinking about second homes. It's just a huge distraction.

00:58:32 [Brad Burnham]
Yep.

00:58:34 [SPEAKER_2]
It'll take you right off course.

00:58:37 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, so I think I'm not ideological about secondaries one way or the other, but I think there's a way to do them and there's a way not to do them.

00:58:42 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah. I'm wondering about the staying private for a long time. One of the things that was really instructive for me about the Uber experience was you know Travis was there were people who insisted on selling and Travis let some of them sell and told them 'don't sell, I don't think it's a good idea to sell at four billion and they sold and literally like six months later 10 billion dollar round and he told them but people just wanted that quick hit you know you get in at five million and you want to get out of four or five billion it seems pretty good except you could have added a zero. It's about the long game.

00:59:22 [Brad Burnham]
I think so. I mean, I think it'd be a really interesting question about where Uber ends up in the long game.

00:59:29 [SPEAKER_2]
Because of self-driving?

00:59:31 [Brad Burnham]
I would actually argue that the more fundamental transformation in the market is going to be more democratic platforms, skinnier platforms, platforms that are fueled by a cryptocurrency. And I think, you know, I don't know when that's going to happen. Obviously, Uber is facing competition. Uber is facing some margin pressure from other players. But if you think about it, you've got drivers and passengers and shareholders, and you're going to divide the pie between them. If you value the business at I don't know whether you want to use 70 or 50 or whatever number you want to use for Uber. And you think about anybody that comes in at that price is looking for a 3x maybe. And then look and think about the earnings that you'd have to produce in order to deliver a 3x. Shareholders are going to take a lot out of that pie. So this is the Bill Gurley comment about rake or rent or whatever. And I think that that's going to open them up to competition too, skinnier protocols that mediate the relationship between drivers and passengers without as much rent extraction and allow the creators and consumers of value uh I bet you there are i mean I heard people talk about it like in a white paper I've never seen it but the concept here would be And it could be for Airbnb as well if they're taking 10% or somebody's taking 20%.

01:00:58 [SPEAKER_2]
Hey, I'm going to create a cryptocurrency. You guys trade your, you know, whatever, you know, air coins or whatever they get called or Uber coins, you know, ride sharing coins. And we own 10% of the coins. You guys do what you want with the rest. And that's it. Or you're taking 1%.

01:01:16 [Brad Burnham]
So what's really cool about the model is that the drivers in this example would have a token or a currency in their cash register and the passengers would have it in their wallet. And so in order to participate in the market, you'd have to own some of this currency. And as more and more people came into the market, the creators of value, the creators and consumers of that value would actually participate in the appreciation. That doesn't happen in a shareholder-driven model.

01:01:46 [SPEAKER_2]
Something we all wanted to do. I remember talking early on to the team at Uber, and I know the Airbnb team looked at this, and eBay team looked at it back in the day, which was giving stock.

01:01:55 [Brad Burnham]
Well, Boston Brewery, remember that? Oh, were they giving stock to them? No, Boston Brewery. Yeah, well, they did that, but they also gave it to their customers, right? Right. They put, you know, basically applications in six packs.

01:02:07 [SPEAKER_2]
Oh, wow. So brilliant. Yeah. That was some Harvard MBA, right? I don't know. Some Harvard MBA is like, I got an idea. Let's put stock certificates. Anyway. Inside of a six pack. All right, listen. Trusted brands that broaden access to knowledge, capital, and well-being by leveraging networked platforms and protocols. That's a lot of words, but I actually understand it. Congratulations. How many people worked on that? You got four partners there? Five partners there? We have five partners now. Yeah. Trusted brands. We get that. Broaden access. Get more people involved. Opening the pie. To knowledge, okay, education, information, okay, got it. Twitter, Tumblr, all those are education. Capital, okay, that's interesting. Finance, Bitcoin, all that kind of good stuff. And well-being. Whoa, what's that about well-being? All of a sudden you guys care about well-being? Go explain. We never used to care about well-being. Yeah, what's going on?

01:03:00 [Brad Burnham]
Running capitalists are caring about well-being? So I think one of the least efficient markets on the planet is healthcare. Concur. Why? So look, I first of all have to say that I am not the healthcare person in the partnership. I think Andy's done most of that work. Rebecca's done some of that work. But I think that the basic idea is if you look at the way in which as more and more people got comfortable transacting online, and as a generation that grew up on the internet came of age and started becoming major purchasers of services, they kind of expected that consumer experience; they're not getting that consumer experience out of healthcare. Call us on the phone, we'll give you an appointment in three weeks. Right. And so I think the theory is that, you know, if you think about the way in which these e-commerce sites have simplified for huge parts of the population, the purchase of everything from razors to dresses; We haven't seen that in healthcare yet. Now, healthcare is a regulated marketplace. It's a much tougher marketplace to crack. There's a lot of entrenched interest. So the question is, how do you work around the edges? How do you find the pieces that lend themselves well to being delivered to a phone? And, you know, we're in a couple of pretty neat projects there. Nurex is one. Modern Fertility.

01:04:35 [SPEAKER_2]
We have one, Calm.com, a meditation app that just, like, consumers actually paying for and buying their own services and taking control over it. I agree with your thesis that this next generation is going to want to take out their phone and be like, 'Give me the same experience Uber and Lyft give me.'I want a doctor's appointment. How soon? At what cost? Okay, there's surge pricing on this day. When is there not surge pricing? When can I get a discount to come in? Just like getting a dentist appointment. Like there's a whole dental startup here. I forgot the name of it. But their whole concept is pivoted around like you don't have to wait. You're going to come and your appointment's going to be on that time and you can book this week, not December for February. And obviously through networks, platforms, and protocols, networks we get, platforms we get. Protocols, kind of old school.

01:05:29 [Brad Burnham]
Not really. No, protocols is code for crypto. It's not meant to be code, but that's what we're talking about.

01:05:35 [SPEAKER_2]
So what's old is new.

01:05:36 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah. And that's where I'm spending all my time.

01:05:40 [SPEAKER_2]
Protocols.

01:05:40 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah. How to get a protocol up and running and adopted. Yeah. And it's been fascinating because, you know, we talked a little bit earlier about ICOs. We talked about the weird situation where you have very early stage companies with lots of money. Also, you know, there are so many unusual situations that you find yourself in. You're working with these young teams. Traditionally, if a young team doesn't find traction, they eventually run out of money and you as an investor, you have the leverage to change something. You can talk through, change focus, change team members, change whatever. You have a young company not getting traction that has a big bank account. And you're a participant in that investment, very little leverage. And so it's been figuring out how to navigate as an investor this space has been really fun.

01:06:45 [SPEAKER_2]
It is really interesting because it seems like some investors, WordPress comes to mind, people have been able to navigate open source plus Red Hat comes to mind. A company that embraces open source fully at the core and has a monetization plan.

01:07:01 [Brad Burnham]
Can you think of one other than the Red Hat model? A monetization plan for open source that's different than providing services and packages on top of an open source stack?

01:07:12 [SPEAKER_2]
I mean, it's almost always been services, which is a terrible business to be in, generally speaking. And then you have the dot-com version of it, the hosted version, where you can deploy it without any pain or suffering. Which is what WordPress does, right? You have WordPress.org. If you want to go do it, you can. You go here and then, yeah. So I don't have one.

01:07:30 [Brad Burnham]
Right. So I think crypto is that layer. Crypto opens up a whole lot more flexibility in terms of the way you create incentives around the protocol. And I think we're very early. Get a couple of Satoshis. I think it'll take a long time before we see the real fruits of that. But I've got a lot of conviction? Conviction.

01:07:56 [SPEAKER_2]
Even more than intuition. Conviction.

01:07:59 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah. I'm in the intuition phase. I'm not up to conviction yet. Well, so one way to arrive at conviction is to think about the alternatives. So we started this conversation talking about market power, dominant players, consolidation, and the impact that's having on innovation and the opportunity for investment. I don't think that's a pretty picture. This is why it's gotten religious. Yeah. You know, to use a term.

01:08:33 [SPEAKER_2]
It's why people have conviction beyond financial, you know. Financial reward right, the people who are in it this is what I found so compelling about the original Bitcoin people when I had them on in 2009-2010 on this podcast-that they were just thinking not like founders I had met in other places they were thinking about you know what's the ramification of somebody in Venezuela who has to deal with a you know currency being devalued, like how do you get your money out of China if you're a dissident, you know? I was like, 'I'm sorry, what are we talking about here?'Or how do you deal with central banks that are printing more money? And I'm like, 'are they printing more money?'I guess they are. Okay. Yeah. This is like a really interesting mental exercise.

01:09:16 [Brad Burnham]
I think we're a long way away from seeing those impacts, but we're not nearly that far away from seeing. You know, the opportunity to invest time and energy as a developer in creating value on top of a platform that can't be evil, that can't ultimately take your legs out from under you. I think that's where a lot of people are working today.

01:09:41 [SPEAKER_2]
Love it. Alright. Listen, you're smart, Brad. Sitting with you, it's got my brain like. In overdrive right now. I'm just like, Oh God, I'm on like eight thread. I'm processing eight threads concurrently right now. My multiprocessor is like, uh, and this was a great thing about having a great conversation on a podcast. I was explaining this to somebody the other day. I was like, 'It's like,'Oh my God, you do a lot of podcasts. I'm like a hundred a year. I was like, 'You know,'every time I get out of that podcast, I have 50 more ideas. I like racing to get my Moleskine. I'm racing to write things down, like all the different ideas. And today, uh, this was a highlight for my week so I really appreciate you doing it, uh, if you have a great company protocols if you match the, uh, thesis best way to get in front of any venture capitalists in my experience is to go through one of their, uh, previous investments or email them and have a product you ever like get an email and then meet with the person.

01:10:37 [Brad Burnham]
Rarely, rarely these days. I think that's a tough way. And I'll tell you, the single worst thing to do is email all five of us at the same time. Yeah, CC is always great. Everybody looks at each other and goes, 'I don't know, who's going to answer this?'So much better to figure out what the firm's doing and then within the firm what the partners are doing and then make sure you know which partner is working on that thing. And then, as you say, if you can find a warm introduction from an entrepreneur that they worked with before, that's a much better way in.

01:11:09 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, for sure. I still respond to the emails coming in.

01:11:13 [Brad Burnham]
Good for you.

01:11:13 [SPEAKER_2]
Well, I have an accelerator, so we actually have a vehicle for it. But when you're, I mean, at the level you're at, I mean, the email box must be going bonkers.

01:11:23 [Brad Burnham]
But, you know, if I see an email that's, you know, we've had this conversation about what my interest is. If somebody, you know, zeroes in on, what Tim Berners-Lee calls the re-decentralization of the web and has a credible mechanism for participating in that, then I'll probably respond to that.

01:11:43 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah. All right. We'll see you all next time. Thanks a lot, Brad. We'll see you all next time on This Week in Startups. Bye-bye.