00:00:20 [SPEAKER_1]
Good.

00:00:21 [Alex Komoroske]
How are you? Thanks for having me.

00:00:22 [SPEAKER_1]
Yeah, pretty good. Thanks so much for joining us. You know, a little early your time. Whereabouts are you?

00:00:28 [Alex Komoroske]
I am in Berkeley.

00:00:30 [SPEAKER_1]
Oh, very nice. Very nice. That's good. That's good. So, yeah. How did Bits and Bobs kind of come about, actually? Was I right in that?

00:00:39 [Alex Komoroske]
Yeah, it’s um so I have this Compendium which is that sort of custom web app I built over the last number of years to organize my thoughts. And if you look at the Compendium live, you'll think that it's dead; I haven't added anything to it for years. I actually add have it open every day and i have i add hundreds of notes to it every day in my private working notes area. I use embeddings to help me find commonalities across different ideas. Then each week, I go and spend a few hours on the weekends when the kids are napping and I distill out the the notes from that week that resonate with me and I developed them a little bit. And it started off actually as a uh believe it or not as a practice a um a very early version of it was when I used to report to Clay Bevoir who recently found that um Sierra with Brett Taylor. Uh, I would send an email on Monday to him of like here's the people I'm meeting with here's the like things that I i'm doing and here's a few takeaways likeInteresting ideas, I think you might find relevant. And then I continued that practice at Stripe, and uh, and then I kind of that section get deeper and deeper and deeper, and longer and longer and longer. I started sharing it with more and more people in my internal little strategy study groups, and then into internal blogs. And then I started publishing externally because I do you know I would do all that reflection on my own personal time, and uh, yeah so uh, now it's a document that has a stupid number of pages in it, and the it's really slow. Like one of the things that happens is people when they're searching in it um it takes so long to load. That they're searching and it will Google Docs will kind of think that they're typing into the document, and so it suggests a random edit to the document because they're actually just searching for something in the document, so that happens like once a day, um I think.

00:02:15 [SPEAKER_1]
I'm probably gonna split it's like I think 700 pages or something, and again I add like 20 pages or so a week, which is just silly, and I know it's probably one of their stress tests this guy totally so we're going to get into talking about the future but uh curious actually to kind of start with the past a little bit like with this round of you know AI, uh, and you know kind. Of GEN AI, uh, came around when did this first hit home for you and like were you super skeptical at first and you know was there a bit of an 'aha'moment that got you thinking like maybe there's something real here?

00:02:51 [Alex Komoroske]
Yeah, I've been following, obviously, all the papers and interesting developments at Google Research and others for many years and watching it kind of slowly plot along and some of the silly things that people were doing with the earlier version of chatbots. And the moment that really hit home for me, though, is I have a few groups of people I facilitate of interesting thinkers I just like talking to and kind of having collaborative debate with. And once a year or so, we would get an Airbnb, in the woods, and we would go; and we just have a few days, 12 people, just for an interesting long-term discussion about what's going to happen in the next decade, about crypto, not just for crypto, but for all of society. And then the next year we did generative AI. And that was, I think, a few weeks before ChatGPT came out. And we had a number of folks, good friends, people who you know as well. In the session, it's just like three days of just thinking and pulling on threads. And afterwards, I would sit down and I would just write 60 pages of like, here's what I took away from that discussion. And I remember writing down and being like, 'Holy shit, like this is going to change everything.'And it's on the cusp of it. So many things are changing that people haven't realized yet. And then a few weeks later, ChatGPT comes out and it was like, 'it's like, you know, starting bell for everybody.'And I knew at that point that like, this was going to be like, you know, LLMs are not some flash in the pan. They are not some random technology. Like they are a fundamental disruptive innovation. And I think you need to act like it. I think a lot of people are acting like AI as a sustaining innovation. And I don't think that's true at all. I think it radically changes a number of things that we haven't even...we're like Wile E. Coyote out over the cliff, kind of as an industry. We're like, oh, we're just going to slap some AI on this. It's like, that's not how that works at all. It actually changes fundamentally. The way that we write software, the way that we can experience things, and it changes the cost structures of everything. It's a really interesting and fascinating thing. But it was that period right before ChatDVD came out that I was like, oh, wow, uh-oh. Got it.

00:04:52 [SPEAKER_1]
That's awesome. So this event is called AI Native Dev. And it can be a little bit of a double entendre. It can mean different things. I'm curious what that means for you.

00:05:05 [Alex Komoroske]
I think. People are currently attempting, they're just jamming AI on the sides of the way that they built software before and the way that they would approach problems. And I think when you embrace LLMs, you write software differently and you think of it, it's almost like, how do you pull the software out of the mind of this LLM? And you do it in a way that's not like a traditional collaborating with another person. You do it a lot more like what Tesla's doing, I think, of like, specs and this designing I think like I had a um silly little example um there's this game called Sky Joe, it's a fun little card game and we were playing it and I got really into it, I realized oh if you could count the cards going through you would have a better you could strategically be making better calls and so I wanted to make a little little little web app to make it so you could uh just keep track of the cards and be able to pull a player out of the deck and it would tell you the probabilities of different cards coming up or whatever, this is the kind of thing that would have taken me a few hours on a weekend uh to like sit down like you know create a new um project. From scratch and like slowly add in stuff and what I did instead was I built it in like 10 minutes and I just used my topic artifacts and I did exactly the way I would have done it, I said first write a little function that does this okay now put that function in this now add TypeScript typing that allows like Now, I just sort of told it what I would have done for each of the individual steps. And in 10 minutes, you have this really nicely styled thing that has undo and save and all these little features. And I built it not by writing any code, but by just coaxing it in the right order with the right steps and kind of things I wanted to do. And that felt like a radically different way of building software to me than sitting down and writing this little project that would have taken me a few hours to do.

00:06:58 [SPEAKER_1]
Right. Yeah. Do you think that that kind of app, like this notion of, you know, I think some people like micro apps and the like is going to, you know, change the way that a bunch of even kind of like users and non-developers kind of maybe even kind of getting into. This world where they can scratch their own itches is like at the moment maybe they just like I could do spreadsheets so I try and use a spreadsheet to do everything that I can and like they have these different tools but they don't feel like they can create custom software, I think it will.

00:07:31 [Alex Komoroske]
But um for a couple of reasons, so I was talking with a friend of mine who's not particularly technical, and I knew I was super into playing around with AI. They said 'I want to like see what it can do, I want to have it programmed so we went to Chat GBT and they were saying something they wanted to do, and then they would give it to HTML, and it would copy and paste it into a thing, and then load it into a separate tab. And that step mystified him. He was like 'I don't understand what's happening.'And the feedback loop just took enough time to copy, paste, and then sometimes it would tell you, you had to kind of surgically put it back in, the code back into the, because it would only update a small portion of it. And then we switched to Anthropic. It has artifacts. And that was basically the same loop, just in a live preview. And that radically changed it. Instead of it feeling like me handholding him, he just sat there and was doing little things and experimenting with it. And I left, I came back 20 minutes later, and he built a relatively complex little toy app. And he was like, I guess I'm a programmer now. I was like, I guess, yeah, sure. But it felt like this immediacy, I think, felt really, really nice. I think by default, what we'll see with AI in the current distribution physics is we'll see a proliferation of both hyper-centralized, hyper-aggregators and a profusion of lots of little micro apps that are like little toys that they don't really do that much on their own. I think the real trick will be how can you get figure out a system that allows these micro apps to add up to something much larger than some other parts to interact with other micro apps and other experiences, and have this emergent possibility that's quite challenging. I think it requires like a fundamentally different kind of like substrate uh to be built on, and that's one of the things that we're working on. Um, but I do think that it's a you know so much of software so much of the industry is predicated to the idea that software is expensive to write and cheap to run, and LLMs mess with both of these assumptions because code that uses LLMs to execute, which is not all code in the future but like you know a fair bit of it uh, that now has a marginal cost that is above zero, which means it is expensive uh, in some significant way that we're not used to. And secondarily uh, LLMs are really good at writing crappy software on demand for basically free, so like it's notGood software often, unless you have the right structures and approaches and the right kind of scaffolding to make sure that it's doing the thing that you wanted like what you all were building um but it is a uh and that these radically change kind of how we think of where you would apply software and how you would apply it. Clay Shirky has this old essay from I think it's 2007 called 'Situated Software'and it's now off the internet yet. A guarantee has a mirror of it. It's a great essay, and it talks about situated software as software that is situated to a hyper-specific context. So anytime you've written a spreadsheet for me, let's situated software. It's situated specifically in the context of this particular spreadsheet. And anytime that someone looks at someone else's bit of situated software, they go, 'that's a piece of crap.'It barely works. It's insecure. It's ugly. But to the person who built it, it's perfect. It does exactly and precisely what they need. And sometimes in those contexts, actually, you say, well, how does that break? She said, I don't know. Slap some more situated software on the side. And especially when LLM can help you write the situated software, you can get software that's just right. It's just the right size for you, as opposed to this one-size-fits-none software that we have today in our modern era.

00:10:43 [SPEAKER_1]
Yeah, that makes sense. So some people I see kind of snarky about, you know, I can just do these little toy things, right? Like stay in your zone, stay in the micro-apps era. You're not going to.you know, I'm an amazing expert developer and you're never going to be able to touch me and the domain that I understand and my enterprise software and the like. How do you think over time, especially like LLMs are actually going to be able to help? In very broad ways across of the spectrum of development that's out there? Or do you think it will never? Oh, no, it will for sure.

00:11:19 [Alex Komoroske]
And I think folks like Tessell and others are really pushing the limits of what you can get. I think the big story, by the way, is that last year people talked about the quality improvements. To me, it's the context-like improvements. That just radically changes the kinds of questions you could ask. If you wanted to ask before opening a large book, um, you know what are the major themes of this book? You can't answer it with just one rag, it's not possible because it's not like there's like this is the theme and like that's in the embedding, like you have to have a broad context and the more that you have the broad context, the more that you can see these subtle patterns keep track of and understand where things are going. And so I think we're just beginning stages of figuring out how to get um LMS to build um large bits of software. I also think one of the things that I think is exciting about Tesla's approach is LLMs, one of their superpowers is they're really, really, really good at translation. And you can translate English to code. And so before, you know, like the spec isn't just some little documentation. It actually is almost the primary semantic thing. And the actual code is kind of like, you know, I think like compiling the spec into code, you know? And it's unlike a normal compiler where everyone who's learned C at the beginning at a certain point says, 'the compiler's broken.'And it's like, ah, I'm here to use this compiler. It's not broken for this case. So you learn that the compiler is almost always trustworthy. With LLMs, it can get confused. And the thing that gets confused on most is when it's not high locality of the code, when it's kind of in multiple files, it has to coordinate based on a specific phrase or word that has to be consistent in these multiple places, LLMs tend to kind of get a little bit confused by that kind of situation. But there's ways of adding scaffolding and idioms to make it so that they are more likely to stay to a pretty good answer.

00:13:05 [SPEAKER_1]
Yeah, I think one of my realizations around this was feeling like I was using English to poke at things just like you were talking about, but then all of that information was lost. It was like in the chat session.and it was gone and it was like but that was like my actual requirement like yeah that's like recording the steps of things to get to the the that result yeah right why am i so it felt like i'm compiling this thing and then just taking my compiled output with me yeah like wait a minute isn't the other thing the important thing to stay around so what if that could be the canonical piece instead and like and so that's why specs kind of made a lot of sense um To me, as you've poked around with all these things, what have you found? You've mentioned some of these, like the LLMs to be particularly good at or bad at when it comes to coding and development in general.

00:13:57 [Alex Komoroske]
One way to think about this is like, you know, in Jurassic Park, when they have gaps in the dinosaur DNA and it fills in with frog DNA kind of, LLMs do that too, where if you don't bring the specific examples, it just kind of assumes based on the most generic. Background information on how it fits in so they do really well if your thing looks like if you if you're writing it in the same kind of React style that everybody else writes it, they're really good at that because they've got tons of frog DNA to bring into your particular situation to get really good results. If you're writing an algorithm that's been represented is like nicely cleanly separated and exists in lots of tutorials and Wikipedia articles or whatever. They're also pretty good at reproducing that When you have an architecture,Like a relatively large architecture that is slightly atypical or it has some weird stylistic and calling ways it's been designed and architected, they start getting a little bit funky there and a little bit like they can lose the plot a bit. Remember that LLMs can't count. And so it's kind of a miracle in some ways that they work reasonably, that they can handle some of these cases. One of the reasons, like really deeply nested JSON, they lose track. Of like, wait, wait, am I in like an object context or an array context and they'll like kind of miss nest some of the things partially because it's just really hard to keep track of the counting like one way, looking at this is uh they do a really good job of these objects like that so smaller chunks of JSON they're shaped roughly like that just in way more examples because like they the the presumably the JSON you'd see on the web has a logarithmic kind of fall off of like the the larger sizes get increasingly less less common and so it doesn't have as much training data to keep track of and it can't fundamentally count and so it just kind of loses track of and just it's remember it's all like vibes based programming it's just its vibes are extremely dialed in yeah and it's fascinating because like you mentioned like you know there's a a lot of React code on the internet that has ended up, you know

00:15:56 [SPEAKER_1]
In these models, and the like, and then I start to think about you know the frog DNA. It's like, do we have the kind of meh frog? Because most of the DNA that's gotten in there with React code is from kind of the average React developer, not like the React core developer that's out there. And so is there like that magical piece of like actually the shock DNA that hasn't evolved that much, right? It's just gotten really good and honed in. And so you really want something that's good enough, that's got enough content that's out there, but is also really, uh kind of focused. Like I'm really curious about the notion of also just kind of like king making as well. If we created a brand new language today, do we have a chance to make it? And how do you feel? How do you think about kind of the role of data and quality data and golden path data all of those things with LLMs?

00:16:53 [Alex Komoroske]
I love Shark data; I just write that down, yeah. I know it's it uh LLMs are really good at imitation. They're so insanely good at imitation that it sometimes looks like innovation, but they're really fundamentally kind of conceptually interpolating across just a very wide swath of human experience and examples. And it does feel like it pulls us towards a centroid. It pulls us towards the average mushy center. Like when you, in its writing, its default writing style is like corporate speak because that's the mushy center that at the core, like the random bland heat death average kind of, and we get the same thing in programming where we're just kind of like, I don't know, I'm just going to use React. I'm going to just do it whatever the most basic way you can possibly, like basic in the pejorative sense. And I do think one thing that's interesting and challenging, like one of the ways it knows how to weight what things are good is like things that have worked for others in the past are more likely to be replicated and other people to also talk about them and write about them. And so LLMs aren't random sampling all texts that could exist. They're random sampling the text that humans have found useful enough to propagate, right? And so you have this natural thing where humans are selecting to some degree the things that are reading off of. But over time, as more and more that selection is done from like this just Bayesian kind of averaging process, you kind of lose some of that signal. And it does feel like it will pull us more towards the centroid. It also does feel like, to me, it will be much, much harder to escape local maxima. Uh because it's just in default but I default if you if I don't have a strong opinion about how to write this bit of code and I said do a thing that has this behavior what's it going to reach for it's going to reach for the most obvious, obvious basic answer of that and put it in there I don't have a strong opinion so I'm not going to go through no no no do it in this other you know style that I think is interesting uh and so that's fine and so now you'll have yet another piece that is now put on to the whole collection of uh of um yeah That's funny.

00:18:52 [SPEAKER_1]
Now I'm thinking about how to nudge selection to be like, this software passes tests a lot versus what are the other parts of selection that could help nudge things for us? I've noticed in the past you've mentioned that spending time to define requirements saves extraordinary amounts of time. I'm just curious, what does requirement, just like when we talk about specs, it means lots of different things to different people.

00:19:21 [Alex Komoroske]
What do you mean by that um uh sorry I'm just taking it uh restored okay I'm just I this is how I write the bits about but I just take notes from interesting things people say and I write them down yeah I think it's partially that one's my direct experience in the last few weeks and I realized it's a pattern I've seen many times like oh we understand how to build this I've got the idea in my head we will simply execute this it turns out exploiting the requirements like you have like this hyper object in your head of like, oh, this should work and all the pieces of it like this. And explaining to other people is like a serialization process. It takes so long. And it's like a combinatorial kind of thing to really serialize it perfectly. And the way to communicate it is then factor that serialization into higher level requirements, which is a process that takes a ton of time. And so you're always like, 'oh, we're fine. We're fine. We're just going to wing it.'I'm just going to give them enough guidance or whatever. But if you do this improperly, you're like, 'oh, we will fast by not doing the requirements. Or factoring out the worker requirements.'And what you end up with is you realize later that people didn't understand the fundamental thing you were trying to do, and they went in these other weird corners, and you have to like, 'no, actually, there's a whole thing.'You can't do it that way. You got to do it this way. And they go, 'okay, cool.'I had to throw out this entire thing I just did. Now, and so to them, it feels like a total thrash. And the mental model in my head is like a dynamic programming problem without memorization done in exactly the wrong order. So each calculation you're doing, you know, 20 times 30 30 times or whatever and that's what it feels like to do the requirements like to read the requirements process is taking the serialization of the hyper object and then distilling it into a more um uh abstract and condensed version that can be efficiently communicated to somebody else yeah that makes sense so uh some developers kind of initially got excited about having these new tools.

00:21:09 [SPEAKER_1]
Some developers got a little bit nervous at first, like, you know, is AI going to take my job, right? And that whole meme. When you look ahead five, 10 years out there, like what aspects do you think of software development are going to remain fundamentally human-driven? And what parts do you think we're going to be somewhat happy to pass over to being AI-driven?

00:21:31 [Alex Komoroske]
Yeah, I think that I'm personally excited about AI as a tool for human creativity because it takes the bland drudgery and allows you to handle those parts. The parts that aren't exciting or aren't interesting, aren't surprising to you in any way; it just kind of allows you to execute on those ways, way faster. You know what one of the powers of infrastructure in general? One of the reasons infrastructure works and creates value in the world is instead of every single individual customer having to build their own lower layers, you can build it once and share it across many. You write it once, you share it with many, so everybody's getting that value but the cost is a single instance of it, so you're factoring out the most boring parts of people, a lot of people's jobs. LLMS also factor out the most boring parts, the parts that are just the mundane judgment. I think that if you use them properly and see them as a tool to extend your creativity. They allow you to to do other interesting new things, like I've heard a number of people have told me they've started writing poetry, you know, and they're like, 'Yeah, I just i used to like it in like high school, I haven't done it in a while, and now I've got like a brainstorming writing partner that helps me, you know, come up with a better rhyme for that or eight different examples of this, or like critique the thing with. That was like if I show the poetry even to my spouse, like I don't want to show them like a shitty writer, like, and uh, so I think it's those kinds of things that allow people to stretch further, and I think that that's an activeChoice is also just as easy to take those tools and become increasingly passive and increasingly, um, like cool. Now I have to think it very hard; no, no, I think you should use these tools to help you think harder, you know.

00:23:11 [SPEAKER_1]
Yeah, that makes sense. So we both spent a lot of our careers on the working on the web platform, as we mentioned at the beginning. And I think we both had a love towards the kind of openness of that era, and then we got to see mobile, which, uh, you know. Guy mentioned this guy mentioned this in the keynote was a slightly different shape of, uh, of, uh, openness, which had different, uh, effects. As someone who likes really studies ecosystem dynamics, and the like how do you think um AI is gonna, you know, potentially change the landscape as it comes to like what can happen to the existing, you know, ecosystems? Like, how's this going to affect the web and mobile and like what opportunities it may be giving us in the future to have change.

00:24:04 [Alex Komoroske]
I think that typically the like decentralization centralization is like a tick-tock. It's at the beginning stage of a new disruptive paradigm. It's open and decentralized. And then later, it centralizes as the best patterns are found and become like the compounding advantage to the ones who are best at it, gets stronger and stronger and stronger. And you get to a really boring part with that, because it's just everything interesting has been done. Like there's no space for innovation. It's just, I don't know if one of these three big players thinks that it's allowed to exist, that's allowed to exist. Like that's insane to me.um and so i think my that's one of my hopes of ai as a disruptive innovation is that it resets and gives you into this open-ended uh decentralized world to start again um i think in some ways ai there was a real danger a number like a year and a half ago i thought that uh ai would be an inherently centralizing technology it's so capital intensive that like only a very small number of companies can possibly invest the capital and then now they become the only ones that can you know train and host these large models and that was a very real possibility like i think looking at like a year and a half ago there was a really real possibility that um open ai would just be the hyper aggregator the apex aggregator to rule them all in this new world and we jump straight from centralized to hyper centralized and like that would be it and i think very encouraging for society one anthropic built a better model like uh you know claude 3 .5, uh, you know Sonnet 3.5 is my daily driver; I use it every day; I use it all the time. It's arguably a better model on a number of fronts, which means now there's another, at least there's multiple horses in the race. Gemini has been making a lot of really interesting progress. And then Zuckerberg comes along and Meta just goes, 'hey, here's an open weights model that is actually one of the best in class,'which really scrambles all the dynamics in a really healthy way. They mean that I think what happens now is instead of the AI model producers having this extreme centralising force, they look a lot more like, to me, like cell network providers. Of extremely capital-intensive and also not that much pricing power because there are basically commodities and you have lots of different options to pick from, which is I think really beneficial for society because those individual operators don't have that much strategic power but all of us benefit from there being a nice competition and allows an open ecosystem to thrive on top of that. One of the bets I was asserting you know a year ago is: companies that take AI for granted can do some really interesting things. If you are fighting to build frontier models that compete with the big ones, like Wow, that's a really tough space to be in. But if you say, 'I'm just going to assume that there's going to be good competition and there will be multiple good, cheap options to pick from, and that competition will drive the quality up and the cost down consistently,'that's a pretty safe assumption. I don't care who wins. I don't care which ones of these are better. I just know that there will be good, high-quality, cheap models to use. And that seems like a pretty safe assumption at this point, which allows an open ecosystem on top, which I think is enormously exciting for society.

00:26:55 [SPEAKER_1]
Yeah, that makes sense. And then another thing that I love about the web ecosystem is browser extensions of all things. Like it felt like you've got this aftermarket kind of approach where like I can come along and someone can build a thing that changes the thing for me. And do you think AI ecosystems are going to allow for maybe a more personal, custom experiences that I can maybe experience? You know, the Streamyard system that I'm in now with like a few different tweaks without having to persuade that company to make that change for me, which obviously doesn't scale.

00:27:32 [Alex Komoroske]
I think so. And I think, you know, I think back to GreaseMonkey. I think GreaseMonkey was one of like the golden eras of the browser for like these little scripts that you could put in. And one of my good friends is used to remind Userscripts.org, which was the kind of centralized community for that. I think GreaseMonkey was really powerful. The problem with GreaseMonkey ultimately was it was insecure. Fundamentally so. And so even as a savvy user, choosing a set of scripts to put in your thing, there's a curve that looks like this. I will only install 10 of these because I have to really. Trust that they aren't going to mess with my Gmail or like sell my data or whatever, and I think the trick is how can you get that kind of thing? And I would never tell my dad to install it, my God, can you imagine what terrible, crazy stuff he would have installed with you know running Grease Monkey. So how do you change the security and privacy model to make it so that actually it's just a purely like 'yep', keep on going, and the sky's the limit, and everybody should um be able to tweak I think that's possible but requires a uh thinking about the security and privacy models, it can't just be like duct-taped on to the existing privacy models.

00:28:36 [SPEAKER_1]
Got it. Makes sense. Okay. I noticed there's some questions that have been asked here, so I want to get to them so I don't take all of your time. So Min asked, how does a developer new to creating a micro app ensure that the code created is of good quality and safe? Are there known techniques to use when interacting with an LLM?

00:28:57 [Alex Komoroske]
This is one of the things that is why microapps are useful in this context. Certain code, when it's compiled, you know if it compiles, there's a pretty good chance it at least does something correct. And this is also, by the way, is a nice loop for LLMs of like, if it doesn't compile, you tell it back to the LLM, here's the code you gave me, here's the compile error, fix it, and it can do a pretty good job. That's like kind of automated spoke testing. Um the problem is like, to get the semantics of the thing correct and one of the nice things about little micro apps and one of the reasons they're a sweet spot is because you can just poke at it and you poke the five buttons in the right order does it do the thing I expected there's not too many like the combinatorial space the possibilities isn't that large but you have to go to interact with it and poke at it and go yeah that does the thing I wanted or no wait a second it hit this button and it did something that's wrong Try again, LLM. But, like, the bigger it gets, the more likely that you've gotten something that has gotten something wrong. And that's where the importance of testing becomes extraordinarily important. And I think one of the reasons that what you all are doing is really interesting is if you write the spec, it's also easy to write the tests. And I find that like. The biggest reason people don't write tests in practice because it's really, it's such a slog and it's such a pain in the butt. And you're doing it in a way that feels very different than writing the code-it's like, you that only attacks but it is the thing that allows you to go fast later. Well, LMS also are honestly they don't get bored; they're totally willing to write the boring, annoying uh tests and like maybe it's not exactly correct, but it's more likely to catch a thing that is wrong in the future. And like, maybe you dive in to go, 'Oh, this test was kind of wrong but that's the thing that gives you that smoke-the smoke test that helps you know that I should dive in and try to debug, you know, yeah, okay.

00:30:39 [SPEAKER_1]
Anthony asked what are the best examples you've seen of stringing together micro apps or their functions, incumbents today? Like Zapier for workflows comes to mind.

00:30:49 [Alex Komoroske]
I think we're not even in the first inning of this. I feel like so far, we're seeing really interesting stuff.like github spark is interesting and and obviously anthropic artifacts was interesting and uh what uh purcell's doing with v0 is super interesting um but these are all individual micro apps um they aren't even distributable necessarily like that for and probably like it's almost an afterthought you can distribute the uh artifact and others you can't and so i don't think we we know what good looks like in this yet uh i think that there is a uh because we haven't even started we like we as a as an ecosystem has discovered that Micro apps are a sweet spot for LLMs, but we haven't yet figured out what to do with that. Okay, in a world of lots of micro apps, how do you stitch them together? I think that's an open question that we're still, no one has really got a good handle on yet.

00:31:37 [SPEAKER_1]
Awesome. Well, Alex, thanks so much for taking the time. I could talk to you for hours about this stuff. It's been really fun. And yeah, find Alex online. I can't wait to hear more about your startup. It's called Common Tools. Is that right? Yeah, super excited about that and uh, yeah, join the Discord and ask questions there too, and we'll be looking over it. But Alex, thanks so much of course, great seeing you, thanks for having me.