4 Competition

When I was a kid, the world’s biggest star was Michael Jordan and the world’s coolest company was Nike, because they made his signature Air Jordan shoes. I’d work all summer just to buy the latest pair. Did it matter that I was a die-hard Seattle SuperSonics fan, but Jordan played for the Chicago Bulls? No, it did not. Jordan wasn’t just a basketball player, he was a deity, and his shoes were divine. Even though I’m now (supposedly) a grown-up, I still collect Air Jordans. I still think they’re beautiful. I still get a thrill when I slide them on my feet. I’m a sneakerhead—one of those enthusiasts/weirdos who has a closet full of shoes, tracks every 1980s rerelease on Nike’s SNKRS app, and would wear Air Jordans to a wedding, if I were ever invited to weddings. So when JZ told me there was a movie about how Nike signed Jordan in the first place? I had to see it.

The film, called Air, takes place in 1984, before Jordan became world-famous. Back then he was just an outstanding college player about to start his pro career. As for Nike? It was the third-place basketball shoe company, behind Converse and Adidas. In 1984, the best pro players—Magic Johnson, Larry Bird, and Julius “Dr. J” Irving—wore Converse. Adidas was the cool brand, the shoes that a young Michael Jordan wanted to wear in his free time. Nike had a paltry 15 percent of the market for basketball shoes.

The story opens with a talent scout named Sonny Vacarro (played by Matt Damon) evaluating college basketball players whom Nike might be able to sign. Back then, Nike had only a small budget for sponsoring basketball players, so Sonny is bargain-hunting—until he sees video footage of Jordan. In the movie, Sonny is all alone, late at night, watching and rewatching a clip of Jordan hitting a game-winning shot. Sonny is enthralled. He notices something special in that clip, and his intuition tells him that Michael Jordan will be not just a successful player, but a generational talent, an unprecedented superstar. He realizes before almost everyone else that Michael Jordan is, well, Michael Jordan.

But Nike can’t afford to sign Jordan. And even if they had the money, Nike’s too uncool. Jordan is dead set on signing with Adidas. Converse is his backup plan. He won’t even agree to meet with Nike. What follows is, essentially, a sprint. Sonny has only days to change Jordan’s mind. Sonny needs a winning strategy, fast.

Like the teams we work with, he starts with the customer problem: Sonny’s customer is Michael Jordan. Jordan’s problem? On the surface, it’s “How do I get the best shoe deal?” But Sonny recognizes that Jordan is special, so his problem is more like, “How do I get the most out of being a superstar?” Sonny has special insight—he sees something in Jordan that others do not. And Nike is desperate. They’re in last place. They’re motivated by frustration. So, inspired and outgunned, Sonny breaks all the rules. He convinces Nike founder Phil Knight (Ben Affleck) to abandon the plan of signing several athletes and instead offer the entire basketball budget to Jordan. He convinces Nike designer Peter Moore to do something unheard of—design a signature basketball shoe for a rookie. Not only that, but, against the wishes of Jordan’s agent, Sonny goes so far as to visit Jordan’s parents at their home in North Carolina—uninvited.

In North Carolina, he realizes something big: his real customer is not Michael Jordan, it’s Jordan’s mom, Deloris (Viola Davis). She is the one he has to convince. Sitting across the table from Deloris, with the Jordans slated to meet Converse and Adidas in a matter of days, Sonny decides this moment is his only chance to change her mind. “I’ll make a bet with you,” he says. “I’ll tell you exactly how those meetings are gonna go. And if I’m wrong, then don’t take a meeting with Nike. But if I’m right, please consider that you and Michael come out.” He goes on to predict that Converse won’t have a plan for making Jordan stand out from Magic, Bird, and Dr. J. He predicts that Adidas’ leadership will appear disorganized—a problem, he points out, that will cause headaches for Jordan in the future.

I don’t think I’ll spoil the movie for you if I give away the ending, because everyone knows what happened. Sonny’s predictions come true, and Michael and Deloris agree to visit Nike. Deloris tells Nike they’ll have to give Michael Jordan a cut of the revenue, they agree, and it’s a deal. Sonny pulls off the impossible. One of my favorite scenes is the fateful meeting in Oregon when the Nike team unveils the signature shoe.

The first Air Jordan was black, red, and white. (the color scheme violated NBA rules, but Nike paid Jordan’s fines.) The shoe is a work of art, with a bold design and elegant lines. When Michael Jordan held it in his hands for the first time? It clicked. Watching it happen on-screen, this sneakerhead got goose bumps. But it’s that backyard conversation between Sonny and Deloris that is the key moment in the movie. Sonny’s knowledge of the competition earns Deloris’s respect. And in that conversation, Sonny foreshadows how his knowledge of the competition will shape Nike’s winning strategy. Adidas looks disorganized? Nike will demonstrate its vision with an over-the-top offer. Converse won’t put Jordan above its other stars? Nike will do the unprecedented and give Jordan his own shoe. Nike’s strategy illustrates another important lesson for making things click: 4️. Get real about the competition.

The next step in the Foundation Sprint is identifying the competition. Like the other Basics, this is so obvious that most teams skip it when forming their strategy. Or they dismiss the competition, naively assuming their new solution will be so good that customers will forget the alternatives. So how should you figure out the competition for your project? To help you make sense of who you’re up against, and why your solution is superior, you can once again use the Note-and-Vote method. Work together in silence, generate options, and vote before the Decider chooses the most important competitors. Give your team the following guidance:

Start with direct competitors

First, write down the other companies or products that more or less solve your customer’s problem. This is the standard definition of “competitor,” and it should be easy. Nike knew they were up against Converse and Adidas because those companies were the market leaders. Start with the competitors you already know about. If you can’t think of many, do some research. But don’t dig too deep. Well-known alternatives are the ones you’re competing with in customers’ minds. If you can’t find any competitors, that could be a warning sign. Management consultants might call it a “green field opportunity,” but management consultants don’t live in the real world. No competition usually means there’s not a real problem.

Search for substitutes

Sometimes there’s no direct competition because customers are solving the problem using a substitute solution. Phaidra’s AI for industrial plants didn’t compete with other AIs for industrial plants. Instead, manufacturers used a work-around: their engineers manually adjusted systems to optimize performance. That’s what Phaidra had to beat. If there is no direct competition, but customers are using substitutes, it could be a big opportunity. Breakthrough products are more likely to compete with substitutes than direct competitors. When Netflix’s streaming service launched, they weren’t going head-to-head with equivalent products, but there were plenty of other ways to watch movies (remember DVDs and TiVo?) Write down a list of substitute products, alternatives, and workarounds that customers use to solve their problem. These can be harder to identify than direct competitors, but you can always just go ask your customers. The question “Hey, how do you solve this problem today?” is remarkably effective—and if you don’t hear an answer that includes time or money or both, it’s probably not a problem worth solving.

Or you might be competing against nothing

Remember how I JUST said that no competition usually means there’s not a real problem? Well, the word usually is key. Usually, no competition means the team is deluding itself. But sometimes customers do have a real problem; it’s just that nobody has offered a reasonable solution yet. In these situations, you’re competing with nothing. These are the riskiest opportunities, but also the most exciting. At Character Capital, we encountered this situation with a startup that made it easy for small businesses to calculate their carbon footprint. When we did this step in a Foundation Sprint with the team, they realized that the “competition” they were up against was . . . their customers doing nothing and feeling bad about it. So they wrote that down and took their best shot at designing a product that was better than doing nothing. In the end, the startup abandoned the carbon-accounting idea because not enough small businesses were willing to pay for their product. As I said, it’s risky competing with nothing! In this case, the startup learned that “do nothing and feel bad about it” was tough to beat, and pivoted in another direction. Another Character investment, a startup called House Rx, helps medical clinics set up in-house pharmacies so that patients with complex or chronic conditions can more easily get the specialty medications they need. Before House Rx developed their solution, it was impossible for clinics to run their own pharmacy—so they, too, were competing against “do nothing.” But in this case, their strategy clicked. They designed a service that offered so much value to clinics and their patients that they overcame the inertia of “do nothing.” It can be done, and it can lead to something awesome, but don’t expect it to be easy.

Go for the gorilla

Whether you have lots of competitors or just a few, you should pay special attention to the strongest, toughest, biggest alternative—the eight-hundred-pound gorilla that wants to solve your customers’ problem. In early 2015, we ran sprints with Slack to help them prepare for their first big marketing campaign. At the time, Slack was still a new product, and most potential customers had never heard of it. The app had a few direct competitors: other niche business apps who offered instant messaging. But none of those newcomers were well known.* So, instead of positioning themselves against small-time competition, Slack picked the biggest fight they could find. They compared themselves to the undisputed heavyweight champion of business communication: email. Their marketing strategy focused on convincing customers that life was better without email, and their product strategy focused on making it easy for teams to quit email and switch to Slack. Picking a big fight worked—just nine months later, Slack’s user base had quadrupled from 500,000 to over 2 million. Setting your sights high will push you to create the best possible solution. Sonny didn’t tell Deloris Jordan how Nike was better than Keds or New Balance, because those companies weren’t serious contenders. To make your solution click, you’ll have to stand out from the best. At this point, we’re halfway through day one of the Foundation Sprint. We’ve covered all the Basics: customer, problem, advantage, and competition. Now it’s time to use your knowledge of the Basics to figure out your differentiation—that is, what sets you apart from the competition. In the next chapter, I’ll show you just how to do that, and I’ll introduce you to another startup with a business plan that sounds like science fiction, so we can see how they use differentiation to get the attention of skeptical customers. *This was long before Microsoft launched Teams, a product with remarkably similar functionality to Slack, including, entirely coincidentally, the same purple color scheme.