3 Advantage

We all have things we do well—and things we don’t do so well. Topics we care about, and others that make us shrug. And we all have some set of ideas about the world that make perfect sense to us, but may be incomprehensible or just seem flat-out wrong to others. Some of these differences are just differences. But some are advantages—and some of those advantages are big advantages, the kind that can help you create a solution to your customers’ problem that nobody else can. The next step of the Foundation Sprint is explicitly identifying your team’s advantages—so you can figure out how to capitalize on those advantages to create a solution that clicks. To put it another way: 3️. Take advantage of your advantages. Surprisingly, most teams don’t follow this obvious advice. Instead, they mimic existing solutions and play by other people’s rules. When you ignore your advantages, you slip into the swamp of mediocrity. But when you take advantage of your advantages, you can rise up and stand out. So what are your advantages? They come in three different flavors: capability, motivation, and insight. To show you how these different kinds of advantages work, let me take you back to the year 2014 and introduce you to three people who eventually became startup founders. As we go, see if you can identify the advantages they bring to their projects—and take a guess at what kind of company each might eventually create.

First, meet Katie Hoffman, a mechanical engineer. On a typical day in 2014, we find Katie navigating among various kinds of industrial equipment, her hands covered in dust and grime, her eyes trained on a mass of cables that run from one piece of machinery to the next. Katie is in charge of a team who retrofits industrial plants with new control systems to optimize their performance. A big part of that job is figuring out how the old systems work, which, it turns out, never matches the design documents. The cable she’s following connects to yet another sensor not listed in the plant’s documentation. Katie takes a photo with her phone, jots down a note, and sighs. Cracking the riddle of the old systems and improving their efficiency is satisfying—but in the back of her mind, she knows that someone else will be here in a few years, doing another retrofit, tearing out all of her work. In the meantime, the system will be static, never improving until that next major overhaul. To Katie, that reality seems like such a waste, and she’s convinced there has to be a better way. But how? • • • Next, meet Jim Gao—also a mechanical engineer. On a typical day in 2014, we find Jim sitting in the control room of a huge Google data center in Iowa. Jim helped design this data center, but today, like Katie, he’s searching for ways to improve its performance. Pipes and conduits run in every direction, painted bright blue, green, red, and yellow. The data center looks like a Super Mario game come to life, only instead of toadstools and flying turtles, there’s just row after row of server racks. All day and all night, seven days a week and twelve months a year, cool water gushes through the multicolored pipes, absorbing heat from the servers and carrying it away. The pipes are doing their job, but as he reviews the readings in the control room, Jim can’t help but feel disappointed. The system just uses so much electricity. Every time the server racks begin to heat up, the team who runs the data center revs up the cooling system output. That revving uses more and more energy, but there is simply no way around it—if the servers get hot, they shut down, and the internet goes dark. Maybe the inefficiency is unavoidable. Maybe he’s come to the limit of what engineering can accomplish. All the same, something nags at Jim. What is he missing? Finally, meet Veda Panneershelvam, a computer scientist. On a typical day in 2014, Veda is sitting at a desk in London, writing code. Veda works with a team of world-class software engineers, and together they’re digging into what was considered the holy grail of artificial-intelligence research: creating a computer program that can beat a human master at the board game Go. If you’re not familiar with Go, just know that it’s complex. There are 10123 possible moves in chess, but there are 10360 possible moves in Go. That’s ridiculous. There are more possible configurations of a Go board than there are atoms in the universe! To master Go, Veda and his colleagues must develop a new approach to artificial intelligence. They need to create a program that can see the future. In 2014, that seems impossible to most people, but to Veda, it’s just exciting. The way he looks at it, if AI could master Go, there is no telling what other kinds of problems it might be able to solve for people.

• Katie is solving inefficient industrial control systems for big manufacturers. • Jim is solving electricity-guzzling data centers for Google. • Veda is solving . . . hmm. I don’t think he’s really solving Go. I think the problem he’s solving is actually the brain’s limited capacity to deal with complex problems, and I think his “customer” is humanity. I know, that sounds a bit grandiose, but I think it’s right.

Okay, what are Katie’s, Jim’s, and Veda’s special advantages? Like I said, there are three kinds. First up is capability. Capability is what you can do that few can match. If you work for a big company, you might have the capability of a well-known brand or plenty of money for your project; if you work for a tiny startup, you might have the capability to focus and move fast. But quite often the most relevant capabilities are just good old-fashioned know-how: • Katie’s an expert at mechanical engineering, with a focus on industrial controls. • Jim’s also an expert at mechanical engineering, with a focus on data centers. • Veda’s an expert at computer science, with a focus on artificial intelligence. Katie, Jim, and Veda are all world-class at what they do—the Caitlin Clarks and LeBron Jameses of their fields—but their capabilities alone don’t give us the full picture of their unique advantages.

Next, let’s look at the second kind of advantage: motivation. Motivation is the specific reason you’re going after this problem; a fire that burns bright in you but not in others. Motivation is relevant because it turbocharges capability, pointing the way to where and how you should use your strengths. All three of these future founders were motivated to solve big problems and make a positive change. That’s admirable, but it’s also vague. I mean, sure, lots of people want to “make the world a better place”—but it’s only when motivation gets specific that it helps you make decisions about what to do. So let’s get more specific: • Katie was frustrated by traditional retrofits of industrial controls. • Jim was frustrated by the limitations of physical systems. • Veda wanted to use AI to solve massive problems for humanity. Notice that, for two of the three, the primary fuel was frustration. If that’s your motivation, hey, that’s okay. Some of the world’s best products were created by people who were aggravated, vexed, galled, rankled, or driven bananas by the status quo. You don’t have to start with a grand vision. Fury works. Okay, with capability and motivation combined, these future founders’ advantages become more unique. But what kind of company might each one create? Let’s follow their stories a little further to find out.

• • • Two years later, on March 9, 2016, Veda stood in a conference room at the Four Seasons Hotel in Seoul, South Korea, his eyes fixed on a live video stream of two men playing a game of Go. On one side of the table was Lee Sedol, a professional Go player and eighteen-time world champion. On the other side was an amateur, who was a colleague of Veda’s. As Veda watched, his colleague set a white stone on the board. Veda’s attention jumped back to the conference room. Here, computer monitors displayed dozens of graphs. The “win probability” chart ticked upward in favor of white. The computer believed that Lee, the seemingly invincible champion, could be defeated. Over the past few days, Veda

and his teammates—fifteen computer scientists fresh off a flight from London—had converted this conference room into a makeshift control center. The purpose of the operation was to feed plays from AlphaGo, the artificial intelligence program they had created, to Veda’s colleague, who would then execute those plays on the real-life Go board. The winner of the match would win a $1 million prize. The whole setup might have been the premise for a caper movie—Ocean’s Fifteen, anyone?—except it was no secret that Lee was playing against an AI. The referees knew it. Lee knew it. Everyone knew it. The match was being broadcast around the world, and millions were watching, even though most Go experts considered the game to be far too complex for a computer to master. But on that March day in Seoul, AlphaGo won.

Thousands of miles away, Jim Gao was still searching for a better way to optimize the cooling systems in Google’s data centers. He stumbled on the AlphaGo story as it was unfolding, got hooked, and began following the updates from Seoul with rapt attention. As he dug into the details, he learned that the AlphaGo AI used a breakthrough approach called “deep reinforcement learning.” A wild idea popped into Jim’s head. Could deep reinforcement learning help with data center cooling? After all, finding the optimal configuration of controls at any given time was kind of like finding the optimal move in a game of Go.

It turned out that Veda and his teammates worked for DeepMind— a company owned by Google. Jim was thrilled—they hadn’t met, but technically, they were all colleagues. So he emailed the DeepMind team and explained his wild idea. Veda thought the data center challenge was fascinating, and he agreed to give it a shot.

Over the course of several intense weeks, Veda, Jim, and a team of DeepMind engineers created a new deep reinforcement learning program. Then they put this new artificial intelligence in charge of the cooling system at a Google data center. At first, the electricity usage spiked. The AI was experimenting, adjusting control settings at random like a toddler mashing buttons on a car stereo. But, like a toddler, the AI was learning. It reinforced the tactics that proved efficient. It improved. And improved. And improved some more, until, like AlphaGo, it was superhuman. Eventually the AI reduced electricity usage in Google’s data centers by 40 percent.

I’ll continue the story in a moment, but first, look at what happened when Veda joined forces with Jim. Their combined capabilities—Jim’s data center expertise plus Veda’s artificial intelligence wizardry— allowed them to build something that neither could create on his own. That’s the power of unique advantages in action. But wait. It gets better. • • •

In 2019, Jim and Veda met Katie—the mechanical engineer who was an expert at retrofitting industrial control systems—and the three of them started talking about how to reduce energy waste in the world outside Google. Factories and industrial plants use vast quantities of electricity on heating, cooling, and operating all kinds of equipment. Could AI help there, too?

For their part, Jim and Veda were convinced that they could radically improve energy usage in these plants—but they would need Katie’s real-world expertise in order to design, sell, and implement a solution. Katie had led engineering and innovation teams at companies like Trane, Ingersoll-Rand, and Raytheon. She knew how manufacturers made decisions, and she knew the shortcomings of industrial controls. The world of industrial plants was a much messier landscape than the tightly designed Google data centers with which Jim and Veda were familiar—but it was a world Katie knew well. So they decided to go for it.

The three of them left their jobs. At the end of 2019, they founded a startup called Phaidra. Phaidra was one of our first investments at Character Capital, and their story is one of the big inspirations for the Foundation Sprint. They started with an audacious project: to make all kinds of industrial plants more efficient with AI. They tested ideas, learned how to build trust with customers, and made their first sale. They deployed a pilot program at a major pharmaceutical manufacturer; then, the following year, they won their first big contract and deployed their AI at five industrial plants. They eventually expanded their service to data centers.

Today the superhuman, adaptive, future-predicting systems that Veda, Jim, and Katie all longed for back in 2014 are a reality. To get there, they needed the third type of advantage: insight. Insight is a deep understanding of the problem and of customers. Insight gives you a perspective that others just don’t have. Jim had insight into data centers, and Veda had insight into deep reinforcement learning, but what unlocked Phaidra’s strategy was Katie’s insight into how industrial plants—and the companies who run them— operate. When you combine the capabilities and insight of the three Phaidra founders, you get something special. You can think of it as an equation: capability + insight + motivation = unique advantage

When Katie, Jim, and Veda met, they thought, “Holy smokes! Look at what we can do together!” Phaidra may be an extreme example, but you can create your own “Holy smokes!” moment with your own team and your own advantages. Like the “customer + problem” questions from the last chapter, advantages can be so obvious that they’re invisible. Once we assemble our team, we take for granted that we’ve got the right stuff. We don’t crow about how good we are—who wants to hang around with a bunch of self-involved braggarts? We don’t ask our teammates to remind us why they’re qualified. That would be rude and weird. But when those basic, obvious, foundational qualifications fade from view, you lose a terrific decision-making tool. Your team’s advantage shapes your strategy by pointing the way to a special solution that your team—and only your team—can deliver.

Identify your team’s unique advantage

The next element of the Basics is your team’s advantage. Once again, you’ll work alone together. Once again, you’ll follow the Note-and-Vote steps—only this time, give answers in three categories: capability, insight, and motivation. What special skills set your team apart? What unique understanding do you have? And what’s your motivation—of all the things you could do with your one human life, why this?

When creating Google Meet, our team’s capability was web and video engineering. Our special insight was that, as a remote team ourselves, we understood the need for easy meetings. Our motivation was making it so people could work together, no matter where they lived.

Phaidra’s unique capability was a combination of computer science and mechanical engineering. They had special insight into how industrial plants operated. Their motivation was saving energy.

Just as you did for the customer and problem, you’ll write down answers and vote in silence, then have the Decider decide. He or she should choose one most important advantage in each category. Look for capabilities, insights, and motivations that make your team unique— and tough to beat. Later, you’ll think about how to use those advantages to set your solution apart from the competition. In the next chapter, I’ll ask you to shift your gaze. To understand your advantages, we’ve looked inward, but to craft a successful strategy, you must look outside your team and make an honest assessment of the competition and alternatives. To illustrate this idea, I’ll tell a story about the most powerful mom in the history of sports.