2 Customer

The first day of the Foundation Sprint begins with a sequence of questions called the Basics. I love the Basics, because the answers to these questions create a crisp picture of the project. They also take me back to a classic moment in a classic film. In the 1988 movie Big, a twelve-year-old boy named Josh makes a wish and wakes up the next morning as a grown-up. The grown-up Josh, played by Tom Hanks, is forced to navigate the adult world and ends up landing a job at a toy company. My favorite scene features Josh in a boring meeting. One executive makes a long-winded case for his pet project: a new line of toys that transform from robots into skyscrapers. He drones on and on about focus groups (“a double-blind format of eight overlapping demographics”) and sales projections (“thirty-seven percent market share . . . onequarter of total revenue . . . ”). Meanwhile, Josh—the kid trapped in a man’s body—plays with the skyscraper robot, his expression growing more and more confused.

At the end of the presentation, Josh raises his hand. “I don’t get it,” he says. Annoyed, the executive shoves a printout at Josh and rattles off more jargon. “If you had read your industry breakdown, you would see that our success in the action-figure area has climbed from twentyseven percent to forty-five percent in the last two years.” But Josh presses his case. “There’s a million robots that turn into something,” he says. “What’s fun about playing with a building?” I was about twelve years old when I saw Big, and it formed my expectations about how the work world operated. I gotta tell you, it’s not far off. In the executive’s presentation, he talks a lot about what the toy’s sales could do for the company, but doesn’t say a thing about what the toy could do for kids. And in real life? A lot of projects out there are Skyscraper Robots. We focus on what we want rather than what we can do for our customers. We put profits and ego first, losing sight of the fact that if customers don’t care, there won’t be any money or glory at all. I know this is true, because I’ve done it. Before the sprint in Stockholm, I spent months designing a complicated 3-D conference room— not because it solved a problem for the customer, but because it was the product I thought would be cool. I mean, honestly, when have you ever been on a video call and thought, “Gosh, I could connect on a deeper level with my colleagues, if only this interface had a simulated woodgrain table”? What was I thinking? It’s absurd! But absurdity—and worse—happens when we don’t put the customer first. This brings me to the second key lesson for making things click: 2️. Start by identifying your customer and a real problem you can solve.

I use the word customer on purpose. Growing up, I spent years working in restaurants as a busboy, and as I set and cleared tables and filled coffee cups and water glasses by the thousands, the word customer came to have a special meaning for me. A customer was a guest, and I was their host. It was my job to serve; to make sure he or she had everything necessary for a great experience. It was my job to solve my customers’ problems—ideally, before they occurred. Not every team treats their customers as honored guests. But they should. JZ and I have seen the inner workings of many companies. The most successful teams respect, understand, and focus on their customers. Teams who see their customers as a pair of eyeballs and a wallet? They struggle. It’s hard to make a product click if you don’t care about the person it’s supposed to click with. Sure, there are exceptions, but not many. And ironically, even if they turn a profit, those who focus more on themselves than their customers are the least satisfied with their work. Squeezing people for attention and money is fool’s gold. If you’re playing the odds, bet on respect. Since JZ and I are playing the odds—since we want the startups in our portfolio to be as successful as possible—we start the Foundation Sprint by identifying the target customer and the problem to be solved. So, tell me: Who’s your customer? What problem are you solving for them?

These are obvious questions—almost rude. But again, the obvious stuff is not always so obvious. Most teams never clearly identify the Basics. They never test their ideas with their customers. They never get to know the people they’re trying to help. Don’t let it happen to you—not knowing your customer is the surest way to build a Skyscraper Robot that nobody wants. The Basics are the first fiber in a thread that will lead to differentiation and a successful strategy. The Basics also give you the opportunity to start out idealistic, with your customers at the heart of your work. They ensure you’re solving a problem you care about. Here are some techniques for identifying your target customer and the problem you’re trying to solve:

Use the Note-and-Vote instead of a group brainstorm

We created a method called the Note-and-Vote to help teams quickly find good ideas and make decisions. Mark this page, because you’ll use the Note-and-Vote a bunch of times throughout the Foundation Sprint. It works like this: 1. Question—Ask the team a question. For example, “Who are our customers?” 2. Silent work—Give everyone about five minutes to think in silence and write as many answers as they can, each on a separate sticky note. Keep these proposals anonymous (don’t put your name on the sticky notes). 3. Silent share—Put the sticky notes up where everyone can see. There may be duplicates; that’s fine. 4. Silent vote—Each person reviews the sticky notes in silence for about five minutes and places two or three votes for their favorite proposals. 5. Debate—If the Decider isn’t certain, they may call for a short debate about the top proposals. 6. Decide—The Decider chooses one proposal. They do not have to follow the votes. That’s the Note-and-Vote. You can Note-and-Vote to define your customer, then do it again to define the problem you’re solving.

We use this collaboration recipe in different forms throughout the Foundation Sprint. The Note-and-Vote is a little awkward at first, but it quickly becomes second nature—and it’s well worth the effort to learn, because this mode of working is much more effective than group brainstorming. With a conventional group brainstorm, one idea jumps out—either because it’s the first reasonable suggestion or because it’s presented by the loudest voice—and then that idea dominates the discussion. Group brainstorms are a highway to hell consensus. Not just consensus, but mediocre consensus. With a Note-and-Vote, you boost quality by tapping the power of working alone together. Each person develops opinions independently, without trying to talk and think at the same time (which I, for one, cannot do). And, because the proposals are anonymous, you can vote, debate, and decide without worrying about flattering or offending your colleagues. In addition to the quality of the proposals, the depth of the participation, and the honesty of the discussion, the Note-and-Vote has another important advantage: It’s WAY faster than group brainstorms and open-ended discussions. I predict you’ll love it. We’ve led hundreds—maybe thousands!—of these Note-and-Votes, and we find that they work best if you use two simple tricks: plain language and the common sense test.

Use plain language

In Big, who are the toy company’s customers? “Eight overlapping demographics”? That doesn’t mean anything. Technical or business jargon creates a barrier of abstraction between the team and their customers. It obscures what’s going on, and often, what it obscures is a strategy that’s full of fluff. Whenever possible, replace jargon with plain language. You’ll be more precise, you can be sure that everyone on the team understands what you’re talking about, and you’re more likely to make decisions that make sense. For Google Meet, our target customer could have been defined with some fancy-pants moniker like “distributed enterprise orgs,” but “teams with people in different locations” works a lot better. Instead of “eight overlapping demographics,” just say something like “kids in elementary school.” Keep it simple.

Take the common sense test

When you’re finished identifying the customer and problem, ask the team: “Does this make sense?” Your answers shouldn’t bend reality. For example, if I said Google Meet’s customers were “3-D aficionados” and the problem was “lack of convincing wood grain on 3-D conference tables,” anybody could see that doesn’t make sense. Customers should be real people. Problems should be real problems. In the case of Google Meet, our customers were teams with people in different locations and their problem was simply that it was difficult to meet. They didn’t need wood grain, they just needed to easily connect with each other. Again: keep it simple. With your customer defined and at the center of your attention, your team is on the same page. You know who you want to help. You know what problem you want to solve. You have clarity. If you change your target later, after running experiments, that’s fine—you’re getting started, not perfect—but these simple decisions put you on the golden path toward a product that clicks, and toward work that is truly meaningful.

You can find more details about running these activities in the checklist at the end of the book. For now, it’s time to move on, and in the next chapter, we’ll go one step deeper into the Basics. I’ll introduce you to a startup bringing artificial intelligence into messy real-world environments, and share a lesson that is even more obvious—and, as a result, even harder to see.