8 Lenses

Around 2005, my dad bought a book called Team of Rivals by Doris Kearns Goodwin. Team of Rivals is a biography of Abraham Lincoln. It tells the story of how Lincoln battled political opponents William Seward, Edward Bates, and Salmon P. Chase, and how, when Lincoln was elected president, he invited all three of these rivals to become his advisors. These guys had wildly different opinions about what the nation ought to do. They also weren’t crazy about Lincoln, who defeated all three for the Republican presidential nomination. But Lincoln convinced them to join his cabinet, and throughout his presidency, Seward, Bates, and Chase challenged his ideas and offered competing perspectives. Before he committed to a course of action, Lincoln listened. My dad loved Team of Rivals. He always valued contrary opinions, and when he learned Abraham Lincoln did, too? He was elated. Wouldn’t stop talking about it. Year after year. Every phone call, every

visit, every time I told him about my difficulties at work. “You know, Jake, Abraham Lincoln sought out the opinions of his opponents. Lincoln listened.” “I know, Dad. I know!” Slowly, very slowly, the idea began to sink in. I wanted to become a better leader. Could competing opinions help me make smarter decisions?

By this time, I was working at Google, and I began to follow my dad’s advice. I started going out of my way to find contrary opinions. I forced myself to listen to the engineers before making a sales pitch for my own ideas. In meetings, I tried to list my colleagues’ opinions on a whiteboard before making a decision. Sometimes I found that there was true consensus around one option. Sometimes I’d find one dissenting viewpoint that was so compelling I had to change my mind. Other times I’d hear the arguments and still decide to go with my own idea— but at least it was an informed decision. Running this kind of “structured argument” felt awkward. But it worked. On the Gmail team, structured arguments helped me design a string of successful features. In Stockholm, structured arguments helped Serge, Mikael, and me make quick decisions to create the Google Meet prototype. Eventually, JZ and I developed step-by-step recipes for structured arguments. The Note-and-Vote is the simplest and most versatile. The one I’m about to introduce, Magic Lenses, is the most powerful. All of them are based on the lesson I learned from my dad, with an assist from Abe Lincoln: 8️. Consider conflicting opinions before you commit to an approach. As usual, this lesson is easier said than done. Abraham Lincoln had a bunch of adversarial advisors and a high tolerance for heated

arguments, and if you have those, great—but most of us don’t. Most of us work with like-minded teammates and most of us don’t love to fight. When we do disagree, it’s hard to know how to handle it. Some common methods are playing devil’s advocate (also known as “dishing out withering criticism but acting like you don’t mean it”), passiveaggressive emails, and the ever-popular political dogfight. Since all of these are unpleasant, most of us keep our disagreements polite and brief. This kind of collegial environment is lovely—98 percent of the time. But then there’s that other 2 percent. The really big decisions. The kind of decision that dictates how we spend the other 98 percent of our time. When you’re choosing how to approach a big project, you need to debate your options without politics or personal bias and you need to consider contrary opinions even if those contrary opinions are not on your team. You need Magic Lenses. The next step in the Foundation Sprint is Magic Lenses. Magic Lenses are a visual representation of competing opinions. Instead of trying to hold different perspectives and arguments in your head, you can use Magic Lenses to see those perspectives, then analyze, compare, and make a quick decision. To illustrate how Magic Lenses work, I’d like to briefly revisit the story of Genius Loci. As you may recall, Genius Loci generated several approaches to helping tourists find hidden gems. Let’s focus on two of those: their first idea, an app with GPS, and the approach they chose in the end, a website and physical signs. App vs. Website + Signs

At the outset, Eglé and Stéph did not disagree with each other. They had the same vision: they wanted to make it super easy for tourists to discover stories about hidden points of interest, and they wanted to deliver those stories in the highest-quality interface. Seen through this “vision lens,” they agreed that an app with GPS was the clear winner— it could use the phone’s location to notify people when they got close to an interesting spot.

But that vision lens doesn’t have to just be a mental construct. Let’s make it visual, using a good old-fashioned 2x2 chart: Vision Lens Notifies the customer App Lowest quality interface Highest quality interface Approach Website + Signs Customer has to look around

Even though they agreed on the vision, Eglé and Stéph resisted the urge to run with their first idea. They decided to have a debate—but since they didn’t actually disagree with each other, they created a structured argument. First, they tried to put themselves in the mindset of a stereotypical engineer. What would be the fastest, cheapest thing to build? They had to admit that an app would be expensive and slow. Any of the other options would be easier. Seen through this “pragmatic lens,” the app doesn’t look so great.

Pragmatic Lens Cheap to build Website + Signs Slow to build Fast to build App Expensive to build

This new perspective gave them pause.

Next, they thought about which approach would work best in the middle of nowhere. What if the cell signal was weak? What if the tourist had never heard of Genius Loci? In the “middle-of-nowhere lens,” the app was once again a big loser. How big a loser? It takes a 2x2 chart to really drive it home. The app is shoved into the lower left. Downtown Loserville.

Middle-of-Nowhere Lens Robust (works in all conditions) Website + Signs Advertising required No advertising required App Fragile (breaks if anything goes wrong)

After considering the pragmatic lens and the middle-of-nowhere lens, Eglé and Stéph wondered if they had been too dismissive of the simpler options when they described a dream product. Were notifications really so magical? Plenty of phone notifications get ignored—a beautiful sign in a pristine location would be just as easy to find, if not easier. As for the interface, a website could be made to look an awful lot like an app. Seen through this revised version of the vision lens, the combination of a website and physical signs appears to be an even better experience for tourists than the app.

Vision Lens — Revised Easy to find Notifies the customer Website + Signs App Highest quality interface Approach Lowest quality interface Customer has to look around

Now, all of this perspective switching? It’s a lot of mental gymnastics. Examining a problem from different perspectives and weighing multiple options against multiple factors requires a huge amount of thinking. It strains the boundaries of our limited working memory. Just writing about it makes my forehead sweat. That’s why, yet again, the old 2x2 chart is so useful. It takes the complexity out of our heads and makes it visual. I’m telling you, 2x2 charts are underrated. And if we draw a series of charts as we go, we can then zoom out and look for patterns.

Considering these last three perspectives on Genius Loci— pragmatic, middle-of-nowhere, and revised vision lenses—the combination of website and signs is consistently strong. And in the crucial middle-of-nowhere lens, it wins by a mile. When we visualize the perspectives, the best approach is obvious.

That’s how the Magic Lenses method works. It’s an opportunity to turn a like-minded team into a team of rivals, to have a thorough argument without raising anyone’s blood pressure, and to expand the capacity of our brains with the help of a simple visualization.

In practice, the Magic Lenses activity works a lot like the differentiation activity—but instead of one chart, you’ll create several, and instead of competitors, you’ll plot your own competing approaches. Here’s how we do it:

Try the classic “team of rivals” If I could give every team the perfect set of advisors, I’d include: • A product visionary who imagines the dream solution for customers (customer lens) • A pragmatic engineer who wants to build the product ASAP (pragmatic lens) • A marketing wiz on a mission to make the business grow, grow, grow (growth lens) • A finance expert intent on maximizing profit (money lens) This list isn’t random. In the hundreds of sprints JZ and I have run with companies, we’ve seen variations of these folks on many teams. These perspectives shake up the debate with new possibilities and priorities.

To illustrate how the classic “team of rivals” works, let’s look at a Character portfolio company called Reclaim. Reclaim makes an AIpowered scheduling assistant—software that automatically organizes the customer’s calendar to create time for focused work and reduce unnecessary meetings. Reclaim wanted to make their AI more useful for their customers, and they had several ideas, but they weren’t sure which was the best approach. So we ran a Foundation Sprint together to help them choose among these options: • Synchronized “no meeting days” for teams • Analytics to show how teams spend their time • Smart scheduling links that understand your priorities

Team Analytics vs. Smart Scheduling Links vs. No Meeting Days Here’s how those different options look on the “team of rivals” charts:

Customer Lens Easy to use Smart Scheduling Links Just okay solution to customer problem Team Analytics No Meeting Days Perfect solution to customer problem Hard to use

Pragmatic Lens Cheap to build Smart Scheduling Links No Meeting Days Slow to build Fast to build Team Analytics Expensive to build

Growth Lens Easy to adopt Smart Scheduling Links Approach Fewer potential customers More potential customers Team Analytics No Meeting Days Hard to adopt

Money Lens More long-term value Team Analytics Fewer potential customers No Meeting Days Smart Scheduling Links More potential customers Less long-term value

If you have a product visionary, pragmatic engineer, marketing wiz, and finance expert on your team, that’s terrific. Let each one create his or her own chart. But if you don’t have a team of rivals, you can still do this exercise, with the charts substituting for the actual experts. No, it’s not as good as the real thing—but it’s a heck of a lot better than not considering alternate perspectives at all, which is what will happen otherwise. Experts or not, you can use the default scales—“More long-term value” to “Less long-term value,” “Easy to use” to “Hard to use,” and so on—or you can choose your own factors based on what’s important to your project. Just consider these a starting point.

Create custom lenses Eglé and Stéph invented the middle-of-nowhere lens because it described a key risk to their project. You, too, should go beyond the “team of rivals” and create custom lenses. You can use any criteria that are important to your project’s success. In their Foundation Sprint, Reclaim’s founders wanted to choose an approach that would “cure pain” for their customers, that is, alleviate the stress people felt when managing their calendars. They also wanted an approach for which customers would be happy to pay. So they created a “Revenue + Cure” lens.

Revenue + Cure Lens More revenue potential Team Analytics Smart Scheduling Links No Meeting Days Cause pain Cure pain Less revenue potential

Most teams find it useful to create anywhere from one to three of these custom lenses. You can also use your differentiation chart (from chapter 5) as a lens. The idea is simply to expand the number of perspectives you consider before you decide.

Finally, zoom out and look at all of your 2x2 charts. You’ll be able to see which colors (or letters) score in the top right of each chart. Patterns will emerge. B B A C B A A A B C C A Approach Zoom out, review, and decide B C C

Sometimes, there is consensus: the same option wins in most lenses or even in all of them. Sometimes, when you review everything, one lens just feels like the right way to evaluate the project. Either way, at this point, it’s time for the Decider to decide on an approach.

Choose one option to be your top bet (your first choice approach) and one as a backup (the first option to consider if you need to pivot).

For Reclaim, the pattern was clear. “Smart Scheduling Links” (option B) consistently appeared in the top right of every Magic Lens. What was interesting was that, coming into their Foundation Sprint, nobody on the Reclaim team thought Smart Scheduling Links would be the best approach to take. Magic Lenses changed their minds.

Reclaim launched Smart Scheduling Links in April 2023. Customers loved it, and it became the startup’s fastest-growing feature, with thousands of people adopting it each month. Meanwhile, Reclaim continued to revisit their 2x2 charts, building features that scored in the top right. By early 2024, their software was being used by more than 300,000 people at more than 40,000 companies and, in July 2024, Reclaim was acquired by Dropbox.

Running the Magic Lenses exercise allows your team to stop mentally juggling everything at once—all of the factors and options and arguments—and frees up precious mental resources that you can marshal for making a good decision.

Day two of the Foundation Sprint is almost over, but there is one more important step. Because even after all of today’s analysis, all you have are your opinions—and if there’s one thing I’ve learned from

watching BBC’s Pride and Prejudice seventeen times, it’s that first opinions are not to be trusted. In the next chapter, I’ll show you how to forge your opinions into a Founding Hypothesis that you can test. I’ll also tell you a story about how even the most brilliant mind can latch on to the wrong idea—and never let it go.

A strategy is just a hypothesis. Run experiments, establish confidence, and then build a product that clicks.