6 Ask the Experts

Your team knows a lot about your challenge. But that knowledge is distributed. Somebody knows the most about your customers; somebody knows the most about the technology, the marketing, the business, and so on.

In the normal course of business, teams don’t get the chance to join forces and use all of that knowledge. In the next set of exercises, you’ll do exactly that.

Most of Monday afternoon is devoted to an exercise we call Ask the Experts: a series of one-at-a-time interviews with people from your sprint team, from around your company, and possibly even an outsider or two with special knowledge. As you go, each member of your team will take notes individually. You’ll be gathering the information you need to choose the target of your sprint, while gathering fuel for the solutions you sketch on Tuesday.

Why go to all this trouble? As with many of the steps we do in sprints, we learned to do this one after making a big mistake. When we first started running sprints, we thought we could learn everything just by talking to the people in charge: usually the CEOs and managers. It makes sense. The Deciders should know the most about the project, right? Well, as it turns out, they don’t know everything—even when they think they do.

We were running a sprint with WalrusCo (again, names and identifying details changed to protect the innocent). We’d already heard everything their CEO and their chief product oﬃcer had to tell us. We’d drawn our map on the whiteboard, and we were feeling confident about it. The CEO told us we “absolutely, one hundred percent” had it right.

That’s when Wendy (again, name changed) stepped in the room. She was full of energy. Her shirtsleeves were rolled up to her elbows, and she rubbed her hands together and paced as she talked. Wendy ran WalrusCo’s sales team. And what she understood better than anyone was how customers reacted at diﬀerent steps in the sales process.

She pointed at our diagram. “Here,” she said, “they’re saying, ‘I’ve never heard of this WalrusCo. Why should I trust you suckers with my account number?’ ” She took a swig of water from a paper cup. “Here,”—she pointed to another spot—“we’re going to require their business tax ID. Nobody has that memorized. They’ve got to find the papers, and they’re digging in their filing cabinet. If I haven’t solved the trust issue by this point, game over.”

Everyone jotted notes. Jake ran to the whiteboard, rubbed out a few lines with his thumb, and drew in Wendy’s corrections. “Like this?” he said.

Wendy looked at her watch, then checked Jake’s work. “Yeah.” She crumpled her paper cup and tossed it in the trash. “About like that. Look, thanks for having me.” She gave an apologetic shrug. “I got this call.”

At WalrusCo, the CEO was certain we had covered everything. But Wendy changed almost every part of our map. Now, before you start thinking that WalrusCo’s CEO was a goofball, we should explain that the map was accurate before Wendy came in. It was just more accurate afterward. Wendy put the basic facts into a real customer’s context.

Nobody knows everything

What Wendy taught us was that big challenges have a lot of nuance, and to understand it all, you need to incorporate information from many sources. Nobody knows everything, not even the CEO. Instead, the information is distributed asymmetrically across the team and across the company. In the sprint, you’ve got to gather it and make sense of it, and asking the experts is the best and fastest way to do that.

Deciding who to talk to is a bit of an art. For your own team, you probably have a hunch about the right people already. We think it’s useful to have at least one expert who can talk about each of these topics:

Strategy Start by talking to the Decider. If the Decider is not going to be in the sprint the whole time, be sure she joins you on Monday afternoon. Some useful questions to ask: “What will make this project a success?” “What’s our unique advantage or opportunity?” “What’s the biggest risk?”

Voice of the Customer Who talks to your customers more than anyone else? Who can explain the world from their perspective? Wendy is a prime example of a customer expert. Whether this person is in sales, customer support, research, or whatever, his or her insights will likely be crucial.

How Things Work Who understands the mechanics of your product? On your sprint team, you’ve got the people building your product or delivering your idea—the designer, the engineer, the marketer. Savioke interviewed roboticists, Blue Bottle interviewed baristas, and Flatiron interviewed oncologists. Think about bringing in the money expert, the tech/logistics expert, and the marketing expert as well. We frequently talk with two, three, or four “how things work” experts to help us understand how everything fits together.

Previous Eﬀorts Often, someone on the team has already thought about the problem in detail. That person might have an idea about the solution, a failed experiment, or maybe even some work in progress. You should examine those preexisting solutions. Many sprint teams get great results by fleshing out an unfinished idea or fixing a failed one. Savioke, for instance, had nearly all the pieces of their robot personality before the sprint, but hadn’t had the opportunity to assemble them. Talking to these experts reminds the team of things they knew but may have forgotten. It always yields a few surprising insights. And the process has another nice, long-term benefit. By asking people for their input early in the process, you help them feel invested in the outcome. Later, when you begin executing your successful solutions, the experts you brought in will probably be among your biggest supporters.

Ask the Experts

Allow half an hour for each conversation, although you likely won’t use all of that time. Once the expert is ready, we follow a simple script to keep things moving.

1. Introduce the sprint If the expert isn’t part of the sprint team, tell her what the sprint is about.

2. Review the whiteboards Give the expert a two-minute tour of the long-term goal, sprint questions, and map.

3. Open the door Ask the expert to tell you everything she knows about the challenge at hand.

4. Ask questions The sprint team should act like a bunch of reporters digging for a story. Ask the expert to fill in areas where she has extra expertise. Ask her to retell you what she thinks you already know. And most important, ask the expert to tell you where you’ve got it wrong. Can she find anything on your map that’s incomplete? Would she add any sprint questions to your list? What opportunities does she see? Useful phrases are “Why?” and “Tell me more about that.”

5. Fix the whiteboards Add sprint questions. Change your map. If necessary, update your longterm goal. Your experts are here to tell you what you didn’t know (or forgot) in the morning, so don’t be shy about making revisions.

That’s it. Your experts don’t have to prepare a slide deck. If they already have something to show, that’s fine, but oﬀ-the-cuﬀ discussion about the map and the customers is often more eﬃcient. This need for improvisation is a little unnerving, but it works. If they’re truly experts, they’ll tell you things you wouldn’t know to ask.

Your experts will provide a ton of information. So how are you going to keep track of it all? By tomorrow, when the team sketches solutions, a lot of the interesting details will have faded from your short-term memory. The whiteboards will be helpful, but they’re not enough. You’re going to need some additional notes.

Imagine that every person on the team took his or her own notes. That would be nice, but if one person alone had an interesting observation, the rest of the group wouldn’t benefit from it. Each person’s notes would be trapped in his or her notebook.

Now imagine that you are a wizard. You wave your magic wand. Sheets of paper fly out of everyone’s notebooks and organize themselves into one big collection. Then the pages tear themselves into scraps. Then—remember, this is magic—the most interesting scraps separate from the rest and stick themselves onto the wall for all to see. Nice job, wizard! You organized and prioritized the group’s notes, and it took no time at all.

Unfortunately, we don’t know how to do any actual magic. But we do have a technique that results in organized, prioritized notes from the entire team. And it’s pretty fast.

The method is called How Might We. It was developed at Procter & Gamble in the 1970s, but we learned about it from the design agency IDEO. It works this way: Each person writes his or her own notes, one at a time, on sticky notes. At the end of the day, you’ll merge the whole group’s notes, organize them, and choose a handful of the most interesting ones. These standout notes will help you make a decision about which part of the map to target, and on Tuesday, they’ll give you ideas for your sketches.

With this technique, you take notes in the form of a question, beginning with the words “How might we . . . ?” For example, with Blue Bottle, we could ask, “How might we re-create the café experience?” or “How might we ensure coﬀee arrives fresh?”

Some of Blue Bottle Coﬀee’s How Might We notes.

Now, some folks * will bristle at the slightly unnatural “How might we” phrasing. After all, most people don’t talk like that in real life, and, combined with writing on sticky notes, it can feel a little silly. We had the same concerns ourselves when we first learned about the How Might We method. When we tried it, we came to appreciate how the open-ended, optimistic phrasing forced us to look for opportunities and challenges, rather than getting bogged down by problems or, almost worse, jumping to solutions too soon. And because every question shares the same format, it’s possible to read, understand, and evaluate a whole wall full of these notes at once (which is what you’ll do later in the afternoon).

* We’re not naming any names, but . . . (cough) engineers.

Take How Might We notes

Every person on the team needs his or her own pad of sticky notes (plain yellow, three by five inches) and a thick black dry-erase marker.* Using thick markers on a small surface forces everyone to write succinct, easy-to-read headlines.

To take notes, follow these steps:

1. Put the letters “HMW” in the top left corner of your sticky note.

2. Wait.

3. When you hear something interesting, convert it into a question (quietly).

4. Write the question on your sticky note.

5. Peel oﬀ the note and set it aside.

Each person will end up with a little stack of notes—you’ll organize them later. There’s no denying that this method is awkward at first, but every team we work with figures it out once they start writing. To better illustrate how all this Ask the Experts and How Might We stuﬀ works, let’s

* We prefer whiteboard markers over Sharpies for three reasons: (1) They’re more versatile. (2) They don’t smell as much. (3) If you hand Jake a Sharpie, he’ll accidentally use it on the whiteboard, guaranteed.

look at part of an actual interview, and the notes that came out of it. In this scene from Flatiron’s sprint, we’re interviewing Dr. Bobby Green, their VP of clinical strategy. This is roughly the first two minutes of his fifteen-minute interview.

“All right, Bobby,” said Jake. “What’s missing on our map?”

“Well, I can talk a little more about this part.” Bobby pointed to the whiteboard, where the diagram said Search for matching trials. “I’ll give you the doctor’s perspective here.”

Bobby handed around a few copies of a three-page printout. “This is a typical list of criteria for a clinical trial,” he said. “When we’re trying to decide if a patient might be a match, we’re comparing what we know about the patient to lists like this.”

The pages were filled with requirements. There were fifty-four in all, everything from “Age 18 or over” to “At least four weeks since prior sargramostim (GM-CSF), interferon alfa-2b, or interleukin-2.” For Jake, Braden, and John, it was tough to decipher. But the point was clear: It was a long list.

Alex Ingram, Flatiron’s product manager, looked up from his printout. “The clinics don’t have all of this information about their patients, right?”

Bobby nodded. “Some of these criteria are in the electronic medical record, but a lot aren’t.”

“Remind us how it works when the info isn’t in the medical record,” Amy Abernethy, Flatiron’s chief medical oﬃcer, said. It was obvious that she already knew the answer, but she also knew the rest of us would benefit from hearing it.

“Well, it depends,” said Bobby. “For example, many trials call for ‘no uncontrolled cardiac disease.’ That’s pretty vague, but it probably means the patient hasn’t had a recent heart attack. That kind of thing won’t be easy to find in the electronic medical record. So someone from the clinic has to talk to the patient or to the patient’s cardiologist. At the end of the day, the oncologist might have to make a judgment call.”

Bobby set his own stack of papers on the table. “To match a patient to a trial, we’ve got to answer a dozen or two dozen open questions. Now multiply that by the number of new patients every week, and the number of trials at each clinic.” He gave a tired smile. “And as an oncologist, you were already busy anyway.”

Around the room, people nodded. Then we all wrote furiously on our sticky notes.

A recap: First, Jake, as the sprint’s Facilitator, began the interview by asking Bobby about the map on the whiteboard. That gave us all context for how the new information would fit with what we’d already discussed. Next, the team asked a lot of questions. Amy’s phrase “Remind us . . .” is useful, because most interviews include content the team has heard before, at some point or another. That’s okay. Covering it again refreshes everyone’s memory and reveals new details. The “Remind us” phrase is also a nice way to make your expert feel comfortable. Bobby didn’t need that—he’s a confident public speaker—but by asking questions in this way, you can draw out great information from even the quietest person on your team.

Let’s talk about note-taking. Here’s a basic outline of the problems Bobby presented:

• • The information required to screen patients is hard to find in their medical records. Filling in missing information requires a lot of time and eﬀort.

• The number of patients, trials, and requirements is overwhelming.

Ugh. That’s depressing, right? But the entire time Bobby was talking, the Flatiron team was turning those problems into How Might We opportunities. Here are some of the notes they took:

Reading the How Might We list feels a lot better than reading the problem list. It was exciting when the interviews ended and we saw each other’s notes on the wall. Each How Might We note captured a problem and converted it into an opportunity. What’s more, each question could be answered in many diﬀerent ways. They weren’t too broad (“How might we reinvent health care?”) or too narrow (“How might we put our logo in the top right corner?”) Instead, Flatiron’s How Might We notes were just specific enough to inspire multiple solutions. On Tuesday, they would provide the perfect inspiration for our sketches.

Bobby’s interview illustrates the basic formula for Monday afternoon. You’ll interview experts, using your map as an outline. You’ll take notes as a team, turning each problem you hear into an opportunity.

By the time you finish your interviews, your team will have generated a pile of notes. In most sprints, we end up with somewhere between thirty and a hundred. Unfortunately, you can’t make good use of that many How Might We questions. Once you turn your attention to sketching, it will be too many opportunities for the poor human brain to track. You’ve got to narrow them down.

Organize How Might We notes MONDAY

As soon as the expert interviews are finished, everybody should gather his or her How Might We notes and stick them on the wall. Just put them up in any haphazard fashion, like this:

First, put up the How Might We notes without any organization. Wow, what a mess!

Now you’ll organize the notes into groups. Working together, find How Might We questions with similar themes and physically group them together on the wall. You won’t know what themes to use ahead of time. Instead, the themes will emerge as you go. For example, imagine you were working with Flatiron Health. You might look at the wall and notice a few notes about electronic medical records. You’d pick those notes up and put them near each other. Bingo. You’ve got a theme.

As the organization goes on, it’ll be useful to label the themes. Just write a title on a fresh sticky note and put it above the group. (We usually end up with a “Misc” theme of notes that don’t fit anywhere else. Those misfit notes often end up being some of the best ones.)

Organize into groups, and give each group a label. This process could go on forever if you let it, but the organization doesn’t have to be perfect. After ten minutes, the notes will be sorted enough to move on to prioritization.

Vote on How Might We notes

To prioritize the notes, you’ll use dot voting. It’s one of our favorite shortcuts for skipping lengthy debate.

Dot voting works pretty much the way it sounds:

1. Give two large dot stickers to each person.

2. Give four large dot stickers to the Decider because her opinion counts a little more.

3. Ask everyone to review the goal and sprint questions.

4. Ask everyone to vote in silence for the most useful How Might We questions.

5. It’s okay to vote for your own note, or to vote twice for the same note.

At the end of the voting, you’ll have clusters of dots on a few How Might We notes, and the whole wall will be prioritized.

Use dots to vote for the most promising questions.

When the voting is over, take the How Might We notes with multiple votes, remove them from the wall, and find a place to stick them on your map. Most notes will probably correspond with a specific step in the story. Here’s Flatiron’s map again:

Flatiron Health’s map with top How Might We notes.

The prioritization process isn’t perfect: There’s little time for deliberation, and early votes will sometimes bias later votes. But it leads to pretty good decisions, and it happens fast enough to leave time for the most important job of the day:

After a look back over your long-term goal, your sprint questions, your map, and the notes you took this afternoon, your team will choose one specific target for the rest of your sprint’s eﬀorts.

MONDAY 7 Target

In 1948, a young scientist named Marie Tharp moved to New York and found a job in the geology department at Columbia University. There she took on an unusual assignment: making the world’s first detailed map of the ocean floor.

Tharp plotted thousands of sonar soundings with painstaking precision. Where there were gaps between data points, she used her expertise in geology and math to figure out what was missing.

As Tharp inked her map, she discovered something surprising. What had appeared to be isolated undersea mountains were in fact one long, interconnected chain of volcanic ranges and deep valleys. It jumped right out of her map: a thick, unbroken band stretching for thousands of miles.

Today, you can easily see the Mid-Ocean Ridge (as it’s now known) using Google Earth. In the Atlantic Ocean the ridge shows up as a dark blue line snaking from the waters north of Greenland, through Iceland, and all the way into the South Atlantic. There, at tiny Bouvet Island, it connects with another jagged blue band and runs east toward the Indian Ocean. On and on it goes, one ridge connecting to another, from ocean to ocean, around the entire earth.

Tharp was the first to see it. The ridge, she hypothesized, was a massive crack where the earth’s shell pulled apart.

At the time, plate tectonics—the idea that giant pieces of the earth’s crust are in constant motion, moving continents and shaping landscapes—was generally considered to be a wacky idea. But it was diﬃcult to argue with Tharp’s map. By the late 1960s, plate tectonics was accepted as fact.

At the end of the day on Monday, you’re set up for a Marie Tharp moment. Tharp didn’t go looking for the Mid-Ocean Ridge, but when she compiled the data and made a map, she couldn’t miss it.

After interviewing the experts and organizing your notes, the most important part of your project should jump right out of your map, almost like a crack in the earth.

Your final task on Monday is to choose a target for your sprint. Who is the most important customer, and what’s the critical moment of that customer’s experience? The rest of the sprint will flow from this decision. Throughout the week, you’ll be focused on that target—sketching solutions, making a plan, and building a prototype of that moment and the events around it.

decided to target the hotel guest (rather than the hotel staﬀ) and to focus on the moment of delivery (rather than the elevator or lobby). The other scenarios were important, but the biggest risk and opportunity were at the guest-room door. And they knew that if they got the delivery right, they could apply what they learned elsewhere. Blue Bottle Coﬀee decided to target their most challenging audience: Customers who had never heard of their cafés and who were shopping for beans they had never tasted. If they could convince strangers that their beans were worth buying, they could be sure the new online store would work well for their fans.

What about Flatiron Health? They had plenty of viable targets. They might try to help patients better understand how the clinical trials worked, and that they wouldn’t be treated as guinea pigs. They might try to streamline the many steps that happened after patients agreed to a trial. They might send a message to doctors before every appointment, reminding them to consider a trial therapy. The possibilities went on and on, but Amy, the Decider, had to pick one target.

Throughout Monday afternoon, we had talked to key experts from the Flatiron team. Janet Donegan, a nurse practitioner with twenty-five years of experience in oncology clinics, gave an account of the work done by clinic staﬀ. The software engineers—Floyd, DJ, Allison, and Charlie—detailed the world of medical record data. With each interview, the story got a little clearer. Everyone had a chance to share an opinion about what we should focus on. Bobby Green, the VP of clinical strategy, thought it would be best to build a tool for doctors. The engineers wanted to focus on research coordinators. Both had excellent arguments. By late afternoon, the snowfall had thickened and everyone had a cup of coﬀee in hand. We were all gathered around a whiteboard, where the team had drawn and redrawn (and re-redrawn) the map. The top How Might We notes were stuck beside corresponding steps in the process. To an outsider, it might have looked like a mess of arrows, text, and sticky notes. To our team, it was as clear as Gene Kranz’s diagram of the Apollo 13 flight path. At last, it was time to make the final decision about where to focus the sprint. Amy needed to choose one target customer and one target moment on the map. Those of us from GV were bracing for a long discussion. But when Jake asked Amy if she was ready, she nodded and grabbed a marker. “Right here.” Amy made two circles on the whiteboard:

Flatiron Health’s map, with target customer and target moment.

“The research coordinators,” she said, “when they’re searching to see if a new patient matches a trial. It’s the top of the funnel, where we can evaluate the most patients. And it’s the coordinators’ primary job to match patients with trials. We won’t be competing for attention like we would be with the doctors.”

Around the room, the Flatiron team nodded, as if Amy’s choice was obvious. We looked at Bobby Green. Earlier that afternoon, he’d made a great argument for focusing on doctors, since they were closer to the treatment decision. Like Amy, Bobby was an oncologist, and he’d spent years running a cancer clinic. He knew what he was talking about. But Bobby had come around. “Doctors’ behavior is tough to change, and our system won’t be perfect at first. The research coordinators will be more tolerant when we make mistakes.”

“This is the right target,” Amy said. “If we can help coordinators find more matches, it’ll be a giant first step.”

In all of our sprints with startups, we’ve never encountered anything more convoluted than clinical trial enrollment. Yet for Amy, the target was as obvious as the Mid-Ocean Ridge. It jumped right out of the map. And the rest of the team found it easy to commit to her decision. Of course, we shouldn’t have been surprised. Amy wasn’t the Decider by accident. She had deep expertise and a strong vision. As for the rest of the team? Throughout the day, they had all heard the same information, seen the same notes, and agreed to the same map. Everyone had a chance to register his or her opinion. By Monday afternoon, they had clarity about the challenge, the opportunity, and the risk. The target was obvious to them, too.

Once you’ve clustered your team’s How Might We notes, the decision about where to focus your sprint will likely be easy. It’s the place on your map where you have the biggest opportunity to do something great (and also, perhaps, the greatest risk of failure).

Pick a target

The Decider needs to choose one target customer and one target event on the map. Whatever she chooses will become the focus of the rest of the sprint—the sketches, prototype, and test all flow from this decision.

Ask the Decider to make the call

It’s easiest if the Decider just makes the decision without a lot of discussion and process. After all, you’ve been discussing and processing all day. By Monday afternoon, most Deciders will be able to make the decision as easily as Amy did. But sometimes, the Decider wants input before she chooses. If that’s the case, conduct a quick, silent “straw poll” to collect opinions from the team.

Straw poll (if the Decider wants help)

Ask everyone on the team to choose the customer and the event each of them believes are most important and to write down those choices on a piece of paper. Once everyone has privately made a selection, register the votes on the map with a whiteboard marker. After the votes have been tallied, discuss any big diﬀerences of opinion. That should be enough input for the Decider. Turn it back over to her for the final decision.

Once you’ve selected a target, take a look back at your sprint questions. You usually can’t answer all those questions in one sprint, but one or more should line up with the target. In our sprint with Flatiron, the target (coordinators searching for matching trials) matched the sprint question “Will clinics change their workflow?” By testing a solution with real coordinators, we hoped to learn the answer.

Flatiron Health’s target matched one of their sprint questions.

By Monday afternoon, you’ve identified a long-term goal and the questions to answer along the way. You’ve made a map and circled the target for your sprint. Everyone on the team will have the same information, and everyone will understand the week’s objective. Next, on Tuesday, it’ll be time to come up with solutions.

Target FACILITATOR NOTES MONDAY

1. Ask for permission

You may feel nervous about managing the group. That’s natural. Even the most experienced Facilitators get nervous. And since structured meetings are uncommon in most companies, your team may not be used to the idea. What should you do to start things oﬀ right? A helpful tactic (learned from our friend Charles Warren, a former Googler) is to ask the group for permission up front. Tell the team you’re going to facilitate and that you’ll keep track of time and process so they don’t have to. Then just say, “Sound okay?” Don’t expect everyone to shout “Yes!” in unison, but because you laid it out there, and because you gave them the opportunity to object (which they likely won’t), everyone will feel better about the dynamic. More importantly, so will you.

2. ABC: Always be capturing

We don’t want to freak you out, but if you’re playing the role of Facilitator, Monday is your busiest day. In addition to leading the group through all of the activities, you’re responsible for something simple but important: recording key ideas on the whiteboard. Or as entrepreneur Josh Porter likes to say: “Always be capturing.” All day Monday, the Facilitator should have a whiteboard marker in her hand. Throughout the day, you’ll synthesize the team’s discussion into notes on the whiteboard. Most of the time, you’ll be able to follow the exercises in this book. But not everything will fit into our templates. Feel free to improvise as you go, making lists of interesting information, drawing additional diagrams, and so on. As you go, ask the team, “Does this look right?” or “How should I capture that?” And when the conversation starts to stall out, you can nudge it to conclusion by saying, “Is there a good way we can capture this thinking and move on?” Remember, the whiteboard is the shared brain of the team. Keep it organized and you’ll help everyone be smarter, remember more, and make better decisions, faster.

3. Ask obvious questions

The Facilitator needs to say “Why?” a lot and ask questions to which everybody already knows the answer. Covering the obvious ensures there’s no misinterpretation, and it often draws out important details that not everyone knows about. In our sprints with startups, we have an unfair advantage: We’re outsiders who don’t know anything, so our dumb questions are genuine. In your sprint, you’ll have to act like an outsider.

4. Take care of the humans

As Facilitator, you’re not only running the sprint—you’ve got to keep your sprint team focused and energized. Here are some of our tricks:

Take frequent breaks

Breaks are important. We like to take a ten-minute break every sixty to ninety minutes, since that’s about as long as anyone can stay focused on one task or exercise. Breaks also give everyone an opportunity to have a snack and get coﬀee. When the team is not hungry and/or suﬀering from caﬀeine withdrawal, your job as Facilitator is much easier.

Lunch late

Eat lunch at 1 p.m., and you’ll miss the rush at most cafeterias or restaurants. It also splits the day neatly in half. You’ll work for three hours, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., then another three, from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.

Eat light and often

Provide good, nutritious snacks in the morning and throughout the day. And be careful of eating a heavy lunch. No burritos, pizza, foot-long subs, or all-you-can-eat buﬀets. We learned the hard way (Indian food burritos, with tortillas made of naan) how these lunch foods can kill a group’s momentum in the afternoon.

5. Decide and move on

Throughout the sprint week, there are many large and small decisions. For the biggest decisions, we’ve given you a script (like Monday’s target, or the narrowing of sketches you’ll find on Wednesday). But you’ll have to handle some smaller decisions on your own. Slow decisions sap energy and threaten the timeline of the sprint. Don’t let the group dissolve into unproductive debates that aren’t moving you toward a decision. When a decision is slow or not obvious, it’s your job as Facilitator to call on the Decider. She should make the decision so the team can keep moving.

Tuesday

On Monday, you and your team defined the challenge and chose a target. On Tuesday, you’ll come up with solutions. The day starts with inspiration: a review of existing ideas to remix and improve. Then, in the afternoon, each person will sketch, following a four-step process that emphasizes critical thinking over artistry. Later in the week, the best of these sketches will form the plan for your prototype and test. We hope you had a good night’s sleep and a balanced breakfast, because Tuesday is an important day.