17 Learn

It was 8:30 a.m. on Friday morning in San Francisco, the final day of our sprint with Slack. Michael had scheduled our first customer interview for 9 a.m., and the sprint team was trickling in, coﬀee cups in hand. We rearranged the couches and chairs so everyone could face the video screen at the front of the room. Braden connected a laptop to the screen, opened a web browser, and joined a video conference that Michael had set up.

Slack started the week with a big challenge: their software was hard to explain to potential customers. Many of the benefits of using Slack (better communication, better teamwork, less stress about work) were only apparent once customers took a chance and tried it with their teams. Experimenting with a new piece of software is a lot of work, so Slack had to make the value clear from the beginning.

By Friday of our sprint, we had two competing solutions. Merci Grace, Slack’s product manager, favored a step-by-step guide called “The Tenacious Tour” that would show customers how Slack worked. Stewart Butterfield, Slack’s founder and CEO, had a hunch about an idea called “Bot Team”—a way for customers to try out Slack by communicating with a team of computer-controlled characters.

You know this story, but you don’t know how it ends. That’s what Friday is all about—finding the end to your sprint story. It’s your chance to put your prototypes in front of real customers, see how they react, answer your sprint questions, and make a plan for what to do next.

On that Friday, everyone was excited and a bit nervous to see how the prototypes would do.

Over the video stream, we heard a door close. Michael’s voice began, “Thanks again for coming in today.” Then we saw the first customer sit down, nervously look right into the camera, and relax as Michael asked a few warm-up questions.

Michael introduced the customer to our first prototype. For a moment, the customer did nothing, and then she leaned forward, grabbed the computer mouse, and started talking.

Friday feels like one long mystery. Throughout the day, you’ll collect clues. Some of those clues help you crack the case, but some lead you in the wrong direction. It’s only at the end—around 5 p.m.—that everything ties together and the answers become clear.

Just like the Slack team, your sprint team will spend Friday together. While the Interviewer is testing the prototype with customers, your team will gather in the sprint room to watch and take notes. It’s the end of an intense week, and your team might feel pressure to get back to “normal work”—emails, meetings, and mission-critical water cooler conversation. But the sprint only works if you stick together until the end.

Watch together, learn together

Everybody has a superpower. A unique strength. For software engineers, it’s writing code. For marketers, it might be designing campaigns. For us, it’s putting sticky notes on whiteboards. There’s one skill that you’re especially good at, and you probably feel most productive when you’re doing that one thing.

It’s tempting to disband the sprint group on Friday and let everyone return to his or her superpower. That way, the Interviewer can use his interviewing superpower to test your prototype with customers.

We’ve tried this approach, and here’s how it goes:

The Interviewer talks to each customer. Good so far.

Unfortunately, he can’t talk and take detailed notes at the same time, so he records the conversations. The interviews are on Friday, so the soonest he can listen to those recordings is Monday. The interviews take all day, so it takes another full day to review the recordings and make sense of what he heard. Then he needs a few hours to put together a document or presentation with his findings. Now it’s Tuesday. (We even know some researchers who edit together a video “highlight reel” of the most interesting moments from the interviews—awesome, but time-consuming.)

And once all that’s done, the Interviewer needs to schedule time with the sprint team to present and review the findings. At the earliest, it will be the Wednesday after the sprint before the team sees the results.

There are other problems. As time passes, the team’s momentum will disintegrate as everyone gets sucked into the vortex of business as usual. And there’s a credibility problem, too. Because the team didn’t witness the test, they’re stuck trusting the Interviewer’s process and results. It’s like the diﬀerence between watching a movie yourself and just having someone tell you about it.

Luckily, the solution to all these problems is simple: Watch the interviews together.

It’s much faster, because everyone is absorbing the results at once. Your conclusions will be better as a group, since you have seven brains working together. You’ll avoid problems of credibility and trust, because each sprinter can see the results with his or her own eyes. And at the end of the day, your team can make an informed decision about what to do next—the results of the interviews (and the sprint) are still clear in everyone’s short-term memory.

This wonderful teamwork doesn’t happen by itself, but with a few simple steps, you can create it every time.

Here’s what to do:

Take interview notes as a group

Before the first interview begins, draw a grid on a large whiteboard in the sprint room. Create five columns—one for each customer you’ll be interviewing—and a few rows—one for each prototype, or section of the prototype, or sprint question you’re trying to answer.

Distribute sticky notes and whiteboard markers to everyone in the room. Give everyone instructions for how to take notes during the interviews: “When you hear or see something interesting, write it down on a sticky note. You can write down quotes, observations, or your interpretation of what happened.”

Use a diﬀerent color marker depending on the note: green for positive, red for negative, black for neutral. If you only have black markers, write a plus or minus in the corner, or leave it blank for neutral.

During the interviews, the room should be quiet. The interview itself is a time for careful listening and detailed note-taking, not boisterous reactions or problem solving on the spot.

It’s also important to be respectful of the customer being interviewed. Even though the customer can’t hear you (the video should stream “one way”) keep in mind that if she struggles with your prototype, it’s your problem, not the customer’s.

At the end of each interview, collect the notes and stick them to the whiteboard. Put them into the correct row and column, but don’t worry about any other organizing just yet. Then, take a break. Focusing and taking notes for five hours is tiring, so get some downtime between each interview.

By Friday afternoon, five target customers had tried the two Slack prototypes, and the whiteboard was covered with sticky notes. We gathered around to organize them and look for patterns. We started by looking at the reactions to “The Tenacious Tour,” the solution that featured a straightforward, step-by-step guide to Slack. There was still general confusion about how Slack worked with email, but four out of five customers had understood the overall value—a huge success.

Just two of the five had tried to sign up, but there appeared to be many easy-to-fix problems that might improve that number. (One forehead slapper: the “Tour” sign-up button was too far down the page.)

Everyone agreed: “The Tenacious Tour” wasn’t perfect, but it was way better than Slack’s current marketing.

Then we shifted our attention to the results for “Bot Team.” Customer by customer, we read the notes. It wasn’t pretty. The observations were dominated by comments like “She’s confused,” “Doesn’t seem better than email,” and “I’m not really sure what this is.”

Only one person had enjoyed talking to the computer-controlled characters, and even that person was bewildered by the purpose of the software.

We’d all watched these interviews, of course, but as we looked at the notes, it sunk in: Stewart’s hunch had been wrong.

That was a surprise—Stewart’s intuition was normally excellent—but it was also a relief. Building “Bot Team” and getting it right would have been a big, expensive undertaking. We had given the realistic prototype our best eﬀort, and it had failed. Now the whole team felt confident about focusing elsewhere.

On the other hand, “The Tenacious Tour” looked promising. The pieces were there, and some of the problems would be easy to fix. The next step was obvious. To close the gap, Merci and her team would run another sprint.

The Slack team had hoped for a breakthrough success; instead they got mixed results. But there was good news: they knew “The Tenacious Tour” was an improvement, they knew “Bot Team” was trouble, and they knew they had to focus on the “Slack vs. email” question.

Turning a whiteboard full of sticky notes into a list of patterns and next steps may sound like alchemy, but when everyone has watched the interviews together, it’s straightforward.

Look for patterns

Ask the entire team to gather near the whiteboard. Everyone should stand close enough to read the sticky notes.

Take about five minutes to silently review the notes; give each person a notepad and pen to write down patterns he or she sees.

Look for patterns that show up with three or more customers. If only two customers reacted in the same way but it was an especially strong reaction, make note of that, too.

After five minutes looking for patterns individually, ask the team to share what they found and read the patterns aloud.

On another whiteboard, list every pattern and label each one as positive, negative, or neutral.

Once the patterns are listed, it’s time to make sense of the results.

Back to the future

On Monday, you came up with a list of sprint questions. These are the unknowns that stand between your team and your long-term goal. Now that you’ve run your test and identified patterns in the results, it’s time to look back at those sprint questions. These questions will help you decide which patterns are most important, and also point you toward next steps.

Slack had two big sprint questions.

First, they wondered, “Can we explain Slack to people who have never tried it?” After the sprint, the answer was “Yes . . . maybe.”

But Merci and the rest of the team weren’t satisfied with a “decent job.” They wanted to fix “The Tenacious Tour” and make it even better.

Their second question was “Can we help an individual understand Slack before their team joins?”

Every team that adopts Slack starts with a single person. That person has to imagine what it will be like to use the software with a whole team before convincing his or her coworkers to join.

The fake team in “Bot Team” was an attempt to solve this problem, and it was a failure.

Still, Slack thought there might be a diﬀerent way to approach this challenge on the marketing page. So they answered, “No . . . maybe,” and vowed to try again in their next sprint.

At the end of your own sprint, you’ll do the same.

Review your long-term goal and sprint questions from Monday. You probably won’t answer every question, but like Slack, you’ll make progress.

After looking back, it’s usually easy to figure out the next step. The team can have a short discussion, and then (you guessed it) the Decider decides how to follow up.

A winner every time

Maybe the best part about a sprint is that you can’t lose. If you test your prototype with customers, you’ll win the best prize of all—the chance to learn, in just five days, whether you’re on the right track with your ideas.

The results don’t follow a neat template. You can have eﬃcient failures that are good news, flawed successes that need more work, and many other outcomes.

Let’s look at how five teams interpreted their test results, and what they decided to do next.

Slack had two outcomes from their sprint. First, they had an efficient failure when they discovered that one solution didn’t work, saving months of engineering work and extraordinary cost.

Their other prototype was a flawed success.

Three weeks later, the team reconvened for a follow-up sprint to improve on “The Tenacious Tour.” They better explained how messaging worked. They improved their diagrams and clarified the guide.

When they tested the improved prototype, the results were stark: The new website was understood by five out of five customers, and Slack built and launched it afterward.

The robot makers Savioke had a sprint with a rare outcome— virtually every idea we tested was successful.

Afterward, the team poured their eﬀorts into bringing those ideas to market, and it paid oﬀ in the form of great press coverage and new hotel customers.

Blue Bottle Coﬀee tested three competing prototypes in a classic Rumble. One idea was an eﬃcient failure; the other two were flawed successes.

Blue Bottle took the best elements from those two winners and merged them into a website that dramatically increased sales.

Flatiron’s sprint question was a big one: Would cancer clinics change their workflow to use a new tool?

The stakes were high. If they convinced research coordinators to switch, they could enroll more patients in clinical trials.

Working together, we prototyped new software, then tested it with research coordinators.

The result was an exciting flawed success.

The coordinators didn’t love every part of the prototype, but their enthusiastic reaction to the concept gave Flatiron the confidence to continue designing and developing the software.

Six months later, clinics were using the real thing to match patients to trials.

Many times, a successful test is not the end of the process, but the beginning.

In 2014 we ran a sprint with Medium, a writing platform created by Twitter founder Ev Williams.

Ev and his team had several ideas for improving Medium’s commenting and discussion tools, and after Friday’s test, there were several flawed successes worth pursuing.

Medium’s engineering team spent the next week building two of the strongest ideas from the sprint.

Then, as a test, they launched them to a fraction of Medium’s users.

It was a follow-up sprint with large-scale data. (It turned out that both ideas increased discussion.)

Many companies want to launch quickly so they can get data from hundreds, thousands, or even millions of people.

That large-scale data is great.

But in the rush to get there, it’s easy to miss the opportunity to gather small-scale data early, when there’s still time to course-correct.

As Medium’s story illustrates, you can have the best of both worlds.

You can talk to your customers, and you can learn from large-scale data.

Made for people

When you get into a regular rhythm of listening to customers, it can remind you why you’re working so hard in the first place.

Every interview draws you and your team closer to the people you’re trying to help with your product or service.

If you continue running sprints, and if you’re true to your vision, the day will come when you’ll close that gap.

You’ll be watching some Friday’s test, and you’ll see people understand your idea, believe it will improve their lives, and ask the Interviewer how to buy it.

In these moments, it’s like Mission Control cheering when the Apollo 13 module safely splashes down in the Pacific. It’s like the thieves from Ocean’s Eleven watching the fountain after the heist, or Gandalf swooping in on a giant eagle to rescue Frodo and Sam.

It’s amazing.

It’s what work should be about—not wasting time in endless meetings, then seeking camaraderie in a team-building event at a bowling alley—but working together to build something that matters to real people.

This is the best use of your time.

This is a sprint.

Liftoff

It’s a freezing December day, overcast and blustery. Two cofounders lean close to each other and exchange a few words. One week ago, their latest prototype failed, but they think they know why. They’ve made a few fixes, and this morning, both men feel confident. After more than three years of building and testing, their crazy long-term goal might be in reach.

A cutting twenty-mile-per-hour wind curls fine spray oﬀ the sand. Most people would say the weather sucks, but the two men hardly seem to notice.

If their prototype fails, they’ll still learn something, and they know that only five people will see it happen.

They make the final preparations and check in with the observers. It’s time to begin.

And it works.

For twelve glorious seconds, everything goes right.

Their second test is another success, and the third.

Hours after beginning, they run the fourth and final test of the day, and boom! Four-for-four.

In the last test, the prototype works for a full fifty-nine seconds, and the cofounders are elated.

It’s 1903, and Orville and Wilbur Wright have just become the first humans to fly a powered aircraft.

It’s easy to think of the Wright brothers as otherworldly historic figures whose famous flight was an unparalleled work of genius. But as a reader of this book, you might recognize the methods and hard work that got them oﬀ the ground.

The Wright brothers started with an ambitious, practically crazy goal. At first, they didn’t know how to get there. So they figured out which big questions they needed to answer.

In 1899, the Wrights did their own version of Ask the Experts by corresponding with others who had tried to fly and writing to the Smithsonian Institute for technical papers on aerodynamics.

They found existing ideas by researching kites and hang gliders, observing birds, and studying boat propellers.

Then they combined, remixed, and improved.

For the next few years, they made progress by staying in a prototype mindset.

One step at a time, they isolated challenges and broke through obstacles.

Could they get enough lift? Would a person be able to keep an aircraft steady? Could they add an engine?

Along the way, they crashed. A lot.

But each time, they used a new prototype purposebuilt to answer one specific question.

They remained fixed on the longterm goal, and they kept going. Sound familiar? The Wright brothers didn’t use sprints to invent the airplane. But they used a similar toolkit. And they used it, and used it, and used it. Forming a question, building a prototype, and running a test became a way of life. Sprints can create those habits in your company. After your first sprint, you might notice a shift in the way your team works. You’ll look for ways to turn discussions into testable hypotheses. You’ll look for ways to answer big questions, not someday, but this week. You’ll build confidence in one another’s expertise and in your collective ability to make progress toward ambitious goals.

The phrase “ambitious goal” might sound like corporate-speak or the headline of a bad inspirational poster. But we shouldn’t be embarrassed to have ambitious goals at work. Each of us has only so much time in a day, in a year, and in our lives. When you go to work in the morning, you should know that your time and eﬀort will count. You should have confidence that you’re making a diﬀerence in real people’s lives. With the techniques in this book, you can bring focus to the work that matters.

Since 2012 we’ve run more than one hundred sprints with startups. That’s a big number, but it pales in comparison to the number of people who have taken the sprint process and used it on their own to solve problems, reduce risk, and make better decisions at work. We’ve heard about sprints in classrooms. At Columbia University in New York City, professor R. A. Farrokhnia wanted to teach his business and engineering students how to run a sprint, but—with the typical class schedule—there was no way to get a solid week of time. So he hacked the system. Professor Farrokhnia found a free week at the end of summer term and organized an experimental “block week” class that would stretch across the full five days. The typical classroom at Columbia is arranged in auditorium seating, not ideal for a sprint, so he tracked down classrooms being remodeled and hauled in some whiteboards. The sprint was on.

In Seattle, Washington, two high school math teachers named Nate Chipps and Taylor Dunn used a sprint to teach their students about probability. The students created high-fidelity prototypes of a board game in one class period. In the next class, they watched as their peers played the prototype game, making notes about which ideas worked and which didn’t. By the time they turned in their final assignment (a revised version of the game), they’d observed how the probability principles operated in real life.

We’ve heard about sprints in all kinds of contexts. Legendary consulting firm McKinsey & Company began running sprints, as did advertising agency Wieden+Kennedy. The sprint process is used at government agencies and nonprofits, as well as at major tech firms, at companies like Airbnb and Facebook. We’ve heard sprint stories from Munich, Johannesburg, Warsaw, Budapest, São Paulo, Montreal, Amsterdam, Singapore, and even Wisconsin. It’s become clear that sprints are versatile, and that when teams follow the process, it’s transformative. We hope you’ve got the itch to go run your own first sprint—at work, in a volunteer organization, at school, or even to try a change in your personal life. You can run a sprint anytime you’re not sure what to do, or struggling to get started, or dealing with a high-stakes decision. The best sprints are used to solve important problems, so we encourage you to pick a big fight.

Throughout the book, you learned a handful of unconventional ideas about how to work faster and smarter:
• Instead of jumping right into solutions, take your time to map out the problem and agree on an initial target. Start slow so you can go fast.
• Instead of shouting out ideas, work independently to make detailed sketches of possible solutions. Group brainstorming is broken, but there is a better way.
• Instead of abstract debate and endless meetings, use voting and a Decider to make crisp decisions that reflect your team’s priorities. It’s the wisdom of the crowd without the groupthink.
• Instead of getting all the details right before testing your solution, create a façade. Adopt the “prototype mindset” so you can learn quickly.
• And instead of guessing and hoping you’re on the right track—all the while investing piles of money and months of time into your ideas—test your prototype with target customers and get their honest reactions.

At GV, we invest in startups because we want them to change the world for the better. We want you to change the world, too. To that end, we’ll leave you with one more thought about the Wright brothers, this one from their friend John T. Daniels, who was present at their famous flight on December 17, 1903. “It wasn’t luck that made them fly; it was hard work and common sense,” said Daniels. He went on: “Good Lord, I’m a-wondering what all of us could do if we had faith in our ideas and put all our heart and mind and energy into them like those Wright boys did!” We’re a-wondering, too. We think you can accomplish a lot, and we know just how you should start.

Checklists

In the following pages, you’ll find checklists for every part of your sprint. (You can also find these lists at thesprintbook.com.) Running a sprint is kind of like baking a cake: If you don’t follow the recipe, you might end up with a disgusting mess. You wouldn’t skip the sugar and eggs and expect your cake to turn out, and likewise, you can’t skip the prototyping and testing and expect your sprint to work. For your first few sprints, follow all the steps. Once you’ve got it down, feel free to experiment, just like an experienced baker. And when you find something new that makes the process work better for you, please let us know!

SET THE STAGE
❏ Choose a big challenge. Use sprints when the stakes are high, when there’s not enough time, or when you’re just plain stuck. (p. 26)
❏ Get a Decider (or two). Without a Decider, decisions won’t stick. If your Decider can’t join the entire sprint, have her appoint a delegate who can. (p. 31)
❏ Recruit a sprint team. Seven people or fewer. Get diverse skills along with the people who work on the project day-to-day. (p. 34)
❏ Schedule extra experts. Not every expert can be in the sprint all week. For Monday afternoon, schedule fifteen- to twenty-minute interviews with extra experts. Plan for two to three hours total. (p. 36)
❏ Pick a Facilitator. She will manage time, conversations, and the overall sprint process. Look for someone who’s confident leading a meeting and synthesizing discussions on the fly. It might be you! (p. 36)
❏ Block five full days on the calendar. Reserve time with your sprint team from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Friday. (p. 40)
❏ Book a room with two whiteboards. Reserve a sprint room for the entire week. If it doesn’t have two whiteboards in it already, buy some or improvise. Book a second room for Friday’s interviews. (p. 42)
Key Ideas
• No distractions. No laptops, phones, or iPads allowed. If you need your device, leave the room or wait for a break. (p. 41)
• Timebox. A tight schedule builds confidence in the sprint process. Use a Time Timer to create focus and urgency. (p. 47)
• Plan for a late lunch. Snack break around 11:30 a.m. and lunch around 1 p.m. This schedule maintains energy and avoids lunch crowds. (p. 40)

SPRINT SUPPLIES
❏ Lots of whiteboards. Wall-mounted are best, but rolling whiteboards are good, too. Alternatives: IdeaPaint, Post-it easel pads, or butcher paper taped to the walls. Get two big whiteboards (or equivalent surface area). (p. 43)
❏ Yellow 3-by-5 sticky notes. Stick with classic yellow, because the multicolored notes cause unnecessary cognitive load. Get fifteen pads.
❏ Black whiteboard markers. Using a thick marker will keep your ideas pithy and easy for others to read. We prefer whiteboard markers over Sharpies because they’re more versatile, they smell less, and you don’t have to worry about accidentally putting a permanent mark on your whiteboard. Get ten markers.
❏ Green and red whiteboard markers. For Friday’s observation notes. Get ten of each color.
❏ Black felt-tip pens. For sketching on Tuesday. Avoid super-thin pens that encourage microscopic writing. We like the mediumpoint Paper Mate Flair. Get ten pens.
❏ Printer paper. For sketching (sadly, not everything fits on a sticky note). Get one hundred sheets, letter-size or A4.
❏ Masking tape. For posting solution sketches on the walls. Get one roll.
❏ Small dot stickers (¼-inch). For heat map votes. Must be all the same color (we like blue). If you’re searching online, these are often called “Round Color Coding Labels.” Get about two hundred small dots.
❏ Large dot stickers (¾-inch)—For How Might We votes, straw poll, and supervotes. Must be all the same color, and a diﬀerent color than the small dots (we like pink or orange). Get about one hundred large dots.
❏ Time Timers. For keeping time throughout the sprint. Get two: one to keep the current activity on time, and one to remind you when to take a break.
❏ Healthy snacks. Good snacks will help keep your team’s energy up throughout the day. Eat real food like apples, bananas, yogurt, cheese, and nuts. For a boost, have dark chocolate, coﬀee, and tea. Get more than enough for everybody.

MONDAY
Note: Schedules are approximate. Don’t worry if you run behind. Remember to take breaks every sixty to ninety minutes (or around 11:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. each day).
10 a.m.
❏ Write this checklist on a whiteboard. When you’re done, check oﬀ this first item. See how easy that was? Keep checking oﬀ items throughout the day.
❏ Introductions. If some people don’t know one another, do a round of introductions. Point out the Facilitator and the Decider and describe their roles.
❏ Explain the sprint. Introduce the five-day sprint process (you can use the slide deck on thesprintbook.com). Run through this checklist and briefly describe each activity.
10:15-ish
❏ Set a long-term goal. Get optimistic. Ask: Why are we doing this project? Where do we want to be in six months, a year, or even five years from now? Write the long-term goal on a whiteboard. (p. 55)
❏ List sprint questions. Get pessimistic. Ask: How could we fail? Turn these fears into questions you could answer this week. List them on a whiteboard. (p. 57)
11:30-ish
❏ Make a map. List customers and key players on the left. Draw the ending, with your completed goal, on the right. Finally, make a flowchart in between showing how customers interact with your product. Keep it simple: five to fifteen steps. (p. 65)
1 p.m.
❏ Lunch break. Eat together if you can (it’s fun). Remind your team to choose a light lunch to maintain energy in the afternoon. There are snacks if you get hungry later.
2 p.m.
❏ Ask the Experts. Interview experts on your sprint team and guests from the outside. Aim for fifteen to thirty minutes each. Ask about the vision, customer research, how things work, and previous efforts. Pretend you’re a reporter. Update long-term goal, questions, and map as you go. (p. 71)
❏ Explain How Might We notes. Distribute whiteboard markers and sticky notes. Reframe problems as opportunities. Start with the letters “HMW” on the top left corner. Write one idea per sticky note. Make a stack as you go. (p. 73)
4-ish
❏ Organize How Might We notes. Stick all the How Might We notes onto a wall in any order. Move similar ideas next to one another. Label themes as they emerge. Don’t perfect it. Stop after about ten minutes. (p. 79)
❏ Vote on How Might We notes. Each person has two votes, can vote on his or her own notes, or even the same note twice. Move winners onto your map. (p. 80)
4:30-ish
❏ Pick a target. Circle your most important customer and one target moment on the map. The team can weigh in, but the Decider makes the call. (p. 87)
Key Ideas
• Start at the end. Start by imagining your end result and risks along the way. Then work backward to figure out the steps you’ll need to get there. (p. 53)
• Nobody knows everything. Not even the Decider. All the knowledge on your sprint team is locked away in each person’s brain. To solve your big problem, you’ll need to unlock that knowledge and build a shared understanding. (p. 70)
• Reframe problems as opportunities. Listen carefully for problems and use “How might we” phrasing to turn them into opportunities. (p. 74)
Facilitator Tips
• Ask for permission. Ask the group for permission to facilitate. Explain that you’ll try to keep things moving, which will make the sprint more eﬃcient for everyone. (p. 89)
• ABC: Always be capturing. Synthesize the team’s discussion into notes on the whiteboard. Improvise when needed. Keep asking, “How should I capture that?” (p. 89)
• Ask obvious questions. Pretend to be naive. Ask “Why?” a lot. (p. 90)
• Take care of the humans. Keep your team energized. Take breaks every sixty to ninety minutes. Remind people to snack and to eat a light lunch. (p. 90)
• Decide and move on. Slow decisions sap energy and threaten the sprint timeline. If the group sinks into a long debate, ask the Decider to make a call. (p. 91)

TUESDAY
10 a.m.
❏ Lightning Demos. Look at great solutions from a range of companies, including yours. Three minutes per demo. Capture good ideas with a quick drawing on the whiteboard. (p. 96)
12:30-ish
❏ Divide or swarm. Decide who will sketch which part of the map. If you’re targeting a big chunk of the map in your sprint, divide it up and assign someone to each section. (p. 102)
1 p.m.
❏ Lunch
2 p.m. The Four-Step Sketch. Briefly explain the four steps. Everyone sketches. When you’re done, place the sketches in a pile and save them for tomorrow. (p. 109)
❏ 1. Notes. Twenty minutes. Silently walk around the room and gather notes. (p. 110)
❏ 2. Ideas. Twenty minutes. Privately jot down some rough ideas. Circle the most promising ones. (p. 111)
❏ 3. Crazy 8s. Eight minutes. Fold a sheet of paper to create eight frames. Sketch a variation of one of your best ideas in each frame. Spend one minute per sketch. (p. 111)
❏ 4. Solution sketch. Thirty to ninety minutes. Create a threepanel storyboard by sketching in three sticky notes on a sheet of paper. Make it self-explanatory. Keep it anonymous. Ugly is okay. Words matter. Give it a catchy title. (p. 114)
Key Ideas
• Remix and improve. Every great invention is built on existing ideas. (p. 96)
• Anyone can sketch. Most solution sketches are just rectangles and words. (p. 104)
• Concrete beats abstract. Use sketches to turn abstract ideas into concrete solutions that can be assessed by others. (p. 106)
• Work alone together. Group brainstorms don’t work. Instead, give each person time to develop solutions on his or her own. (p. 107)
Recruit Customers for Friday’s Test
❏ Put someone in charge of recruiting. It will take an extra one or two hours of work each day during the sprint. (p. 119)
❏ Recruit on Craigslist. Post a generic ad that will appeal to a wide audience. Oﬀer compensation (we use a $100 gift card). Link to the screener survey. (p. 119)
❏ Write a screener survey. Ask questions that will help you identify your target customers, but don’t reveal who you’re looking for. (p. 120)
❏ Recruit customers through your network. If you need experts or existing customers, use your network to find customers. (p. 122)
❏ Follow up with email and phone calls. Throughout the week, make contact with each customer to make sure he or she shows up on Friday.

WEDNESDAY
10 a.m.
❏ Sticky decision. Follow these five steps to choose the strongest solutions:
❏ Art museum. Tape the solution sketches to the wall in one long row. (p. 132)
❏ Heat map. Have each person review the sketches silently and put one to three small dot stickers beside every part he or she likes. (p. 132)
❏ Speed critique. Three minutes per sketch. As a group, discuss the highlights of each solution. Capture standout ideas and important objections. At the end, ask the sketcher if the group missed anything. (p. 135)
❏ Straw poll. Each person silently chooses a favorite idea. All at once, each person places one large dot sticker to register his or her (nonbinding) vote. (p. 138)
❏ Supervote. Give the Decider three large dot stickers and write her initials on the sticker. Explain that you’ll prototype and test the solutions the Decider chooses. (p. 140)
11:30-ish
❏ Divide winners from “maybe-laters.” Move the sketches with supervotes together. (p. 141)
❏ Rumble or all-in-one. Decide if the winners can fit into one prototype, or if conflicting ideas require two or three competing prototypes in a Rumble. (p. 145)
❏ Fake brand names. If you’re doing a Rumble, use a Note-and-Vote to choose fake brand names. (p. 145)
❏ Note-and-Vote. Use this technique whenever you need to quickly gather ideas from the group and narrow down to a decision. Ask people to write ideas individually, then list them on a whiteboard, vote, and let the Decider pick the winner. (p. 146)
1 p.m.
❏ Lunch
2 p.m.
❏ Make a storyboard. Use a storyboard to plan your prototype. (p. 149)
❏ Draw a grid. About fifteen squares on a whiteboard. (p. 152)
❏ Choose an opening scene. Think of how customers normally encounter your product or service. Keep your opening scene simple: web search, magazine article, store shelf, etc. (p. 153)
❏ Fill out the storyboard. Move existing sketches to the storyboard when you can. Draw when you can’t, but don’t write together. Include just enough detail to help the team prototype on Thursday. When in doubt, take risks. The finished story should be five to fifteen steps. (p. 154)
Facilitator Tip
• Don’t drain the battery. Each decision takes energy. When tough decisions appear, defer to the Decider. For small decisions, defer until tomorrow. Don’t let new abstract ideas sneak in. Work with what you have. (p. 159)

THURSDAY
10 a.m.
❏ Pick the right tools. Don’t use your everyday tools. They’re optimized for quality. Instead, use tools that are rough, fast, and flexible. (p. 186)
❏ Divide and conquer. Assign roles: Maker, Stitcher, Writer, Asset Collector, and Interviewer. You can also break the storyboard into smaller scenes and assign each to diﬀerent team members. (p. 187)
❏ Prototype!
1 p.m.
❏ Lunch
2 p.m.
❏ Prototype!
❏ Stitch it together. With the work split into parts, it’s easy to lose track of the whole. The Stitcher checks for quality and ensures all the pieces make sense together. (p. 189)
3-ish
❏ Do a trial run. Run through your prototype. Look for mistakes. Make sure the Interviewer and the Decider see it. (p. 189)
❏ Finish up the prototype.
Throughout the Day
❏ Write interview script. The Interviewer prepares for Friday’s test by writing a script. (p. 188)
❏ Remind customers to show up for Friday’s test. Email is good, phone call is better.
❏ Buy gift cards for customers. We usually use $100 gift cards.
Key Ideas
• Prototype mindset. You can prototype anything. Prototypes are disposable. Build just enough to learn, but not more. The prototype must appear real. (p. 168)
• Goldilocks quality. Create a prototype with just enough quality to evoke honest reactions from customers. (p. 170)

FRIDAY
Makeshift Research Lab
❏ Two rooms. In the sprint room, the sprint team will watch a video feed of the interviews. You’ll need a second, smaller room for the actual interviews. Make sure the interview room is clean and comfortable for your guests. (p. 202)
❏ Set up hardware. Position a webcam so you can see customers’ reactions. If your customer will be using a smartphone, iPad, or other hardware device, set up a document camera and microphone.
❏ Set up video stream. Use any video-conferencing software to stream video to the sprint room. Make sure the sound quality is good. Make sure the video and audio are one-way only.
Key Ideas
• Five is the magic number. After five customer interviews, big patterns will emerge. Do all five interviews in one day. (p. 197)
• Watch together, learn together. Don’t disband the sprint team. Watching together is more eﬃcient, and you’ll draw better conclusions. (p. 218)
• A winner every time. Your prototype might be an eﬃcient failure or a flawed success. In every case, you’ll learn what you need for the next step. (p. 223)
Five-Act Interview
❏ Friendly welcome. Welcome the customer and put him or her at ease. Explain that you’re looking for candid feedback. (p. 204)
❏ Context questions. Start with easy small talk, then transition to questions about the topic you’re trying to learn about. (p. 205)
❏ Introduce the prototype. Remind the customer that some things might not work, and that you’re not testing him or her. Ask the customer to think aloud. (p. 206)
❏ Tasks and nudges. Watch the customer figure out the prototype on his or her own. Start with a simple nudge. Ask follow-up questions to help the customer think aloud. (p. 208)
❏ Debrief. Ask questions that prompt the customer to summarize. Then thank the customer, give him or her a gift card, and show the customer out. (p. 209)
Interviewer Tips
• Be a good host. Throughout the interview, keep the customer’s comfort in mind. Use body language to make yourself friendlier. Smile! (p. 212)
• Ask open-ended questions. Ask “Who/What/Where/When/ Why/How. . . ?” questions. Don’t ask leading “yes/no” or multiplechoice questions. (p. 212)
• Ask broken questions. Allow your speech to trail oﬀ before you finish a question. Silence encourages the customer to talk without creating any bias. (p. 214)
• Curiosity mindset. Be authentically fascinated by your customer’s reactions and thoughts. (p. 215)
Observing Interviews
Before the First Interview
❏ Draw a grid on a whiteboard. Create a column for each customer. Then add a row for each prototype or section of prototype. (p. 219)
During Each Interview
❏ Take notes as you watch. Hand out sticky notes and markers. Write down direct quotes, observations, and interpretations. Indicate positive or negative. (p. 219)
After Each Interview
❏ Stick up notes. Stick your interview notes in the correct row and column on the whiteboard grid. Briefly discuss the interview, but wait to draw conclusions. (p. 220)
❏ Take a quick break.
At the End of the Day
❏ Look for patterns. At the end of the day, read the board in silence and write down patterns. Make a list of all the patterns people noticed. Label each as positive, negative, or neutral. (p. 222)
❏ Wrap up. Review your long-term goal and your sprint questions. Compare with the patterns you saw in the interviews. Decide how to follow-up after the sprint. Write it down. (p. 222)

Frequently Asked Questions

Q: Can I facilitate a sprint without any experience?
A: Yes. With this book, you have everything you need. In fact, you’re much better prepared than we were when we started out!

Q: Do sprints require long hours?
A: No. The sprint requires roughly thirty-five hours of work from each participant. We want the team to be rested so they stay sharp and do their best work. You’ll be home for dinner.

Q: Will sprint participants miss a lot of other work?
A: Sort of. It’s impossible to spend thirty-five hours in a sprint and do your normal job. But since the sprint only runs from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. each day, participants have the option of spending time in the morning to keep up with other work.

Q: Do sprints work at big companies?
A: Yes. At big companies, it can be diﬃcult to get time from the Decider and other experts. Focus on scheduling cameo appearances for Monday, and be sure to have the Decider delegate another decision maker who can participate every day.

Q: Do sprints work for hardware products?
A: Yes. The biggest challenge for a hardware sprint will be prototyping. Here are three techniques for creating a hardware prototype in one day: Modify or build on top of an existing product, even if it’s incomplete. Use 3D printing or other rapid fabrication techniques to prototype your product from scratch. Or create a Brochure Façade, which allows customers to react to your product without seeing the actual product. For more, see page 185.

Q: Do sprints work for [insert super-hard-to-prototype product or service here]?
A: Almost certainly. Adopt the prototype mindset and pretty much anything is possible. For more on the prototype mindset, see page 168.

Q: Can sprints work at nonprofits?
A: Yes. Just like startups, nonprofits have big challenges and limited resources. The definition of “target customer” might be diﬀerent, but questions about nonprofit concerns like fund-raising, public relations, and community services can all be answered by prototyping and testing with real people.

Q: Can sprints work in classrooms?
A: Yes. The biggest challenge to running a sprint in a classroom is scheduling. If you can find a solid week, go for it! But if your class meets only once or twice a week for a few hours each session, you’ll have to be creative. At Columbia and Stanford, professors have adapted the sprint process by having students do one “day” each class session (either in class, or as homework with their team). Dividing the process will create a lack of continuity, and a lot of “boot up” time each session. Help students out by encouraging them to take lots of photos. If possible, let them keep their maps, sprint questions, and other notes on Post-it easel pads or something similar.

Q: Can we run a sprint with team members in diﬀerent places?
A: Maybe. Running a sprint with people who aren’t physically in the room is tricky. If you want to include them for Monday’s Ask the Experts exercise, or as observers of Friday’s tests, that’s relatively easy to accomplish with a video conference. But if you want to include them for other steps, you’ll need ingenuity and a strong relationship. The bottom line: Nothing that happens on paper or on a whiteboard will work very well for your remote teammates. (Hopefully the technology to solve this problem is just around the corner, but it’s not quite here yet.)

Q: Can I run a sprint by myself ?
A: Sort of. Don’t expect a solo sprint to be as good as a sprint with your team. But we’ve talked to people who have done it successfully, and the techniques for a sprint can be useful on your own. For example, set a timer and force yourself to come up with multiple solutions to a problem. Prototype your ideas to answer specific questions before diving into implementation. See below for more tips on how to use parts of the sprint.

Q: Can we stop after the “Decide” step?
A: No. This question comes up a lot, and we know it’s tempting. Once you identify promising ideas, you could easily jump ahead and start building them for real. The problem is this: Ideas that seem perfect on Wednesday often prove to be flawed after Friday’s test. By continuing with the sprint, and prototyping and testing, you and your team will learn whether those ideas are really as good as they appear.

Q: Can we run a one-, two-, or three-day sprint?
A: We don’t recommend it. If you compress the schedule, you either won’t finish prototyping and testing (see above), or you’ll work crazy hours and burn out. Neither is a recipe for good results.

Q: How about a four-day sprint?
A: Maybe. If the team has experience running five-day sprints, you may be able to compress Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday’s activities into just two days. However, you should not compress prototyping and testing—allow one full day for each.

Q: If we’ve just finished a sprint, can our follow-up sprint be shorter?
A: Yes. Follow-up sprints are exceptions to the five-day rule. Since you’ll already have a map and a prototype, as well as results from your first test to help you create new solutions and make decisions, you can often accelerate a

follow-up sprint. Two things don’t change: You’ll still need a realistic prototype, and you’ll still need to test with five customers.

Q: Can we use parts of the sprint process without running a whole sprint? A: Yes. For a big challenge, use a full sprint. But there are lots of sprint techniques that are useful in other settings. If you need to make a small decision in a meeting, try a Note-and-Vote (p. 146). If you find yourselves frustrated by problems, try writing How Might We notes (p. 73). If you’re talking about solutions in the abstract, do a Four-Step Sketch to make them concrete (p. 109). Every meeting benefits from a Time Timer (p. 47) and a Facilitator writing notes on the whiteboard (p. 36). And you can conduct customer interviews (p. 204) at absolutely any time—with a prototype, with your real product, with competitors’ products, or even with no product at all. We guarantee you’ll learn something.

Q: Is Friday’s test a focus group? A: No. A “focus group” is ten or so customers discussing an idea all together, all at once. Focus groups are plagued by the worst of group dynamics: shy people not talking, loudmouths talking too much, sales pitches, and a group-formed opinion that doesn’t reflect anyone’s honest feelings. By comparison, Friday’s test features one-on-one interviews and observation of customer reactions. In these interviews, you can believe what you see.

Frequently Asked Questions

Q: Can we run Friday’s test remotely, over the phone or by video conference? A: Yes, but extra care is required. Our partner Michael Margolis runs remote tests all the time, where he uses video-conference software to share computer screens and interview customers. But this kind of interview is more diﬃcult. You’ll need to work extra hard to engage your customer, put her at ease, and encourage her to think aloud. And the technology presents another challenge. You don’t want to waste valuable time getting your video-conference software up and running, so practice ahead of time and send your customers a detailed how-to guide for connecting.

Q: Can we test our prototype with fewer than five people? A: No. After four customer interviews, it’s usually diﬃcult to see patterns. After five, it’s easy. (Check out Jakob Nielsen’s research chart on p. 193 for an illustration of this phenomenon.) If you schedule five people and only four show up, you might be okay. But don’t schedule four or fewer.

Q: Can we test with friends and family? A: No. You can only trust the results when you interview customers who match your target profile. Even if your friends and family happen to fit the profile, there’s another big problem: They’re biased, or at the very least they know too much. In your test, you’re looking for honest reactions from real-world customers—something you can never get from someone who knows you.

Q: What about random people at Starbucks? A: Probably not. If you’re building a product for random people who hang out at Starbucks, this might work. But even so, you’ll probably need an additional round of screening to find the exact right five customers—the Starbucks regular, the single parent, the business traveler, whatever.

Q: Should we ever interview customers before a sprint? A: Yes! We know how diﬃcult it is to make time for customer interviews before a sprint. We usually can’t do it. But if you can, this kind of “pre-research” provides a big head start. It’s especially helpful when you’re starting from scratch and don’t already know a lot about your customers or how they use your product. For example, Blue Bottle was new to selling coﬀee online, so we interviewed coﬀee lovers before the sprint to better understand how they shop for coﬀee.

Q: Are there more resources? A: Yes. Check out thesprintbook.com for more information on sprints.

Q: What if my question isn’t answered here? A: We love answering questions about sprints. The best way to reach us is on Twitter. Jake is @jakek, John is @jazer, Braden is @kowitz, and our team is @GVDesignTeam.

Thank-You Notes

Jake Knapp

First and foremost, thank you to my lovely wife, Holly, for your trusted advice. As my first reader, she helped shape this book—and saved the rest of you from several boring stories. Thanks also to Luke, who taught me the meaning of time, and Flynn, who kept me on task by asking every few hours if the book was done yet.

Thank you to my family: to Mom, for doing projects with me; to Dad, for being in the stands at every basketball game; to Becky and Roger, for tireless support; and to Steve, Rich, Nancy, Karol, Britton, and Mignonne, for putting up with your little brother. Probably the only person in my family who didn’t help me even the slightest bit is my nephew, Jack Russillo.

On tiny Orcas Island, I had more excellent teachers than I can list—but a big thank-you to Lyn Perry, Colleen O’Brien, Joyce Pearson, Eric Simmons, Steﬀ Steinhorst, and (of course) Tish Knapp.

Thank you to my many mentors at work, especially to Jeﬀ Hall at Oakley; to Sheila Carter, Christen Coomer, Robb Anderson, Melinda Nascimbeni, and Dan Rosenfeld at Microsoft; and to Charles Warren, Jeﬀ Veen, and Elaine Montgomery at Google. A very special thank-you to Irene Au, for supporting my sprint experiments from the very beginning, and to Michael Margolis, for years of patience and good humor, and for pointing out the positive side of my procrastination.

Thank you to Caroline O’Connor for guidance on the first blog posts about the sprint process and to Belinda Lanks for spreading those posts to a broader audience through Fast Company.

Thank you to the many readers who ran your own sprints, shared your experiences, and asked for more stories and greater detail. Your interest was the spark for this book.

Many thanks to those who gave early advice on the book project: Joe Kraus, Jodi Olson, M.G. Siegler, Gaurav Singal, Kevin Rose, Scott Berkun, and Josh Porter.

Thank you to Tim Brown for your insight and encouragement, and to Charles Duhigg for being so generous with your time.

A very, very big thank-you to our agents, Christy Fletcher and Sylvie Greenberg. Christy and Sylvie are the Obi-Wan Kenobis of Sprint. If this book is readable or useful, it is thanks to their expert guidance and ability to put themselves into the reader’s shoes.

Ben Loehnen, our editor at Simon & Schuster, can read entire manuscripts in three subway stops and spot a cliché through a wall of solid steel. But his real superpower was making us sound more intelligent than we actually are. Ben, if you ever decide to quit publishing and edit dialogue for everyday life, I’m interested.

Jon Karp at Simon & Schuster provided early and steadfast enthusiasm. Publishing a book is complicated work, and Sprint made it into the world with the help of Richard Rohrer, Cary Goldstein, Leah Johanson, Jackie Seow, Stephen Bedford, Ruth Lee-Mui, Brit Hvide, and many others at S&S. And a hand-lettered, UV-varnished, tripleembossed (is that a thing?) thank-you to Jessica Hische, who brought the cover to life.

Like a friend who points out spinach in your teeth, our test readers provided forthright criticism to help Sprint look its best. Thank you to Julie Clow, Paul Arcoleo, Mark Benzel, Jake Latcham, Aaron Bright, Kevin Sepehri, Andrea Wong, Jose Pastor, Justin Cook, Jenny Gove, Kai Haley, Nir Eyal, Steph Habif, Jason Ralls, Michael Leggett, Melissa Powel, Xander Pollock, Per Danielsson, Daniel Andefors, and Anna Andefors.

Some thank-yous don’t fit into obvious categories. Alex Ingram reviewed the Monday chapters over and over and over again (it was really a mess at first) and helped explain the sprint from a startup’s perspective. Sunkwan Kim and Elliot Jay Stocks advised us on print design. Becky Warren suggested the Marie Tharp story. Chip and Dan Heath wrote Made to Stick, the book that served as our primary inspiration for Sprint. (Keep on stickin’, Heath Brothers!)

The entire team at GV was exceptionally understanding and supportive throughout the book-writing process. Thanks especially to Mandy Kakavas, Ken Norton, Phoebe Peronto, Rick Klau, Kaili Emmrich, and Tom Hulme for your timely feedback and suggestions. A very special thank-you to Laura Melahn, who provided brutal honesty and energetic encouragement. And another very special thank-you to Jenn Kercher, who navigated approximately 1,001 legal questions— and caught some well-hidden typos.

A diamond-studded thank-you to David Krane for your ideas, advice, and enthusiasm. And an extra special, super deluxe thank-you to Bill Maris, whose encouragement and support made Sprint possible. It is very unlikely that this book would have been finished before the year 2027 without the help of Kristen Brillantes. She organized our time, put up with our chaos, and even listened to a robot voice read the manuscript aloud on a seven-hour road trip. Kristen, you are quite a friend.

From the very first outline to the last detail of the cover, Michael Margolis and Daniel Burka collaborated with John, Braden, and me on this book. They read and reread, provided detailed suggestions and constructive arguments, and convinced me to remove the most unfunny jokes. Michael, Daniel, Braden, and John—it is an honor to work with you.

John Zeratsky

Thank you to my wife and best friend, Michelle. Your love and encouragement make me a better person. I’m so lucky to be stuck with you.

Thanks to my parents, who supported and entertained a huge range of hobbies when I was a child. (This included sailing-yacht design and music production, among other things.) You helped me develop a love of learning that I’m very grateful for.

My grandpa in rural Wisconsin became an unlikely computer geek in the 1970s, and his passion for digital technology fueled my interest. He was more than a loving grandfather. He was a friend, a mentor, and a patient source of technical support.

Thanks to all my friends and colleagues at the Badger Herald. You gave me a thorough introduction to design and journalism. Thanks to you, I got to design a newspaper, manage print production, write a column about jazz, and even lead our board of directors.

Thank you to Suzy Pingree and Nick Olejniczak. At the University of Wisconsin–Madison, Suzy and Nick made me feel at home—no small feat on a forty-thousand-student campus. Nick introduced me to blogging and taught me web development. Suzy allowed me to enroll in several of her graduate seminars. They introduced me to my first freelance design clients and provided support beyond words.

In 2005 the FeedBurner team gave me an unbelievable opportunity to jump in over my head. Thanks to Matt Shobe, Dick Costolo, Eric Lunt, and Steve Olechowski for my shot at the big time. I still can’t believe you let me do all that stuﬀ.

In 2011 another group of partners gave me an opportunity that I’m not sure I deserved. Thank you, Braden, for recruiting me to join you at GV. Thanks to Bill Maris, David Krane, Joe Kraus, and the rest of GV for embracing design in venture capital before anyone else. I’m honored and humbled to be part of this team.

I have been privileged to work with dozens of GV portfolio companies. Their curious, talented teams gave me the most transformative learning experiences of my career. Thanks in particular to Pocket, Foundation Medicine, Blue Bottle Coﬀee, Savioke, and Cluster.

To Kristen, Daniel, Jake, Michael, and Braden (yes, you again, Braden): Thank you. I can’t tell you what a pleasure it is to work together. Thanks in particular for encouraging me to embrace writing again—almost ten years after I forgot I was a writer.

Finally, thanks to our agents, Christy Fletcher and Sylvie Greenberg, and our editor, Ben Loehnen. You led us from “what if ” to “holy crap, this is happening” with strength and poise. And you gave us access to a literary world that we had only seen in movies and TV shows.

Braden Kowitz

Thank you to my parents, who showed me joy in creativity, taught me how to repair almost anything, and let me wander through the wilderness. They gave me a TI-99/4A computer and an accompanying cassette recorder to store my first program, all before anyone thought that was a good idea. I am so grateful to have inherited the joy of exploration from them.

Thank you to all the instructors and classmates at Carnegie Mellon University who helped me understand design and how to use it to make the world a better place. They gave me room to practice and the confidence to make mistakes.

I have been incredibly lucky to be a part of Google for most of my career. In that time I’ve worked with countless talented and inspiring people who taught me how to make products that people love. In particular, thanks to Chad Thornton, Michael Leggett, and Darren Delaye for keeping me on my toes and always oﬀering sharp, honest, and helpful critique.

To Joe Kraus, thank you for showing me how to help teams come together to build amazing things. Your mentorship and support through the years has meant so much to me.

It’s easy to get lost in minutiae and lose track of what’s really important in life. Thank you to Om Malik for encouraging me to follow my heart.

My closest friends have listened to me ramble about this book over many miles of hikes and pints of beer, and at every backyard picnic for the past year. Pat, Amanda, Chad, Heather, Kenneth, Brett, and Donal, you are amazing and I love you all dearly.

Most of all, I am grateful for the entire team at GV. Jake, John, Michael, Daniel, and Kristen, I can’t imagine a better team for the challenges we’ve faced or better companions for the adventures ahead.

Image Credits

Christophe Wu took the photos on pages 74, 111, and 113. Graham Hancock took the Time Timer photo on page 47. Adrian Canoso designed the Relay robot on page 14. Heidi Qiao volunteered to sit for the customer test photos on pages 203 to 204. All other photos are by either Jake Knapp, Braden Kowitz, or John Zeratsky. Image postproduction by Braden Kowitz. Illustrations by Jake Knapp.

Index

Abernethy, Amy, 61, 62, 64, 76, 77, 85–87
abstract ideas, sketching and, 106–7
actors, in maps, 66
Ads, 4
“agile” processes, 17
Airbnb, 210–11, 230
Allen, David, 108–9
“Always be capturing” mantra, 89–90, 99–100, 101
Facilitators and, 89–90
anonymity, of solution sketches, 114–15
Apollo 13, 53–54, 85, 225
Apple, 171
App Store, 171–73
art museum, in deciding process, 131, 132
Ask the Experts, 36, 68–82, 228
challenges and, 77–78
on customer perspective, 70
deciding and, 156
existing solution and, 71
in Flatiron Health sprint, 76–78, 85
interview process for, 71–72
mapping the problem and, 69–70, 76, 77
note-taking and, see How Might We notes
on mechanics of product, 70–71
on strategy, 70
Asset Collector, 188
Atlanta Falcons, 172
Atlantic Ocean, 83–84
BadgerCo, 42–43
Balsiger, Peter, 2
Bentz, Melitta, 95–96
big questions, finding answers to, 28
Blogger, 6
Blue Bottle Coﬀee sprint, 16, 21–25, 28, 30, 33, 57, 65, 66, 73–74, 84, 96, 101, 103–4, 108, 113, 116–17, 119, 120, 146, 153, 157, 188, 223–24
long-term goal of, 55–56
“Bot Team” (Slack solution sketch), 143–44, 175, 217, 221, 222
brainstorming groups, 230
lack of results from, 1–2, 107
Brochure Façade, 185
Brown, Tim, 43
Burka, Daniel, 5, 24, 170
Butterfield, Stewart, 129, 131, 143, 144, 217
California, University of, at Irvine, 38–39
cancer treatments: clinical trials in, 61
genetic analysis in, 176
Canoso, Adrian, 8, 11, 12, 97–98, 178–79
challenges, 21–28
in Blue Bottle sprint, 22
choosing which to pursue, see target
experts and, see Ask the Experts
How Might We notes and, 77–78
in Slack sprint, 129–30, 216–17
in SquidCo sprint, 31
Change by Design (Brown), 43
Chen, Annie, 2–3
Chen, Steve, 6
Chipps, Nate, 229
Chrome, 4
clinical trials, 176
of cancer treatments, 61
Clooney, George, 29
coﬀee, freshly roasted, 21
Columbia University, 83, 229
Cousins, Steve, 7–8, 10, 11, 97–98
Craigslist, recruiting test customers with, 119–22
customer experts, 34
customer research, 5
see also tests, real-world
customers, perspective of, 70
straw polls and, 87–88, 138, 139
supervotes and, 140–42
target and, 31, 32, 85–88
in trial runs, 190
deciding, 16, 125, 127–42
art museum in, 131, 132
in Blue Bottle sprint, 24–25
Deciders in, 131, 138, 139–42, 143–44, 159–60
Facilitators in, 135, 136, 137
heat map in, 131, 132–35
honesty in, 139–40
maybe-laters in, 142
Rumbles in, see Rumbles
Scribe in, 135–36
speed critique in, 131, 135–37
straw poll in, 131, 138–40
supervotes in, 131, 140–42, 143, 144
timers in, 136, 138
winners in, 141–42
decision fatigue, 159–60
design experts, 35
design thinking, 17
devices, electronic, as banned from sprint room, 41
Donegan, Janet, 85
Drugge, Mikael, 3
Duncan, Byard, 103, 106, 115
Dunn, Taylor, 229
Daniels, John T., 231
data, from sprints, 16, 32n, 123, 142, 144, 199, 204, 224
deadlines, 3, 10, 109
as challenge, 26
Deciders, 34, 70, 190, 223, 230
customer tests and, 31
in deciding process, 131, 138, 139–42, 159–60
Facilitators vs., 36, 91
in Flatiron Health sprint, 61, 85–87
need for active participation by, 30–32
real-world tests and, 31, 32
in Rumbles, 145, 146
selling sprint concept to, 31–32
in Slack sprint, 144
in storyboard process, 156
elevators, robot helpers and, 8–9
email, 221
Slack vs., 220, 221
existing solutions: in Blue Bottle sprint, 96–97
experts as source of, 71
in Flatiron Health sprint, 98–99, 100–101
inspiration from, 95–96
Lightning Demos and, 96–101
in Savioke sprint, 71, 97–98
unfinished projects and, 71, 97–99
experiments, sprints and, 31
experts, see Ask the Experts
façades, 165–82, 184, 199, 230
in FitStar sprint, 171–74
in Foundation Medicine sprint, 176–77
mindset and, 168–69
in movies, 165–66, 173
in One Medical sprint, 180–82
in Savioke sprint, 178–79
in Slack sprint, 175
time required to build, 166–68
Facebook, 230
Facilitators, 36, 77, 89–91
“Always be capturing” mantra and, 89–90
and asking for permission, 89
and asking obvious questions, 90
Deciders vs., 36, 91
decision fatigue and, 159–60
decisions and, 91
new ideas and, 159–60
prototyping and, 187
and recruiting of test customers, 119–23
in speed critique, 135, 136, 137
team needs and, 90–91
timers and, 46–48
failures, eﬃcient, 222–23
fake brands, in Rumbles, 145
faking it, see façades
Farrokhnia, R. A., 229
feedback, 207
reaction vs., 169–70
finance experts, 34
Fitbit, 171
fitness training, automated, 171–74
FitStar sprint, 171–74, 189, 206
Flatiron Health sprint, 60–64, 76, 85, 88, 100–101, 153, 176, 224
Flickr, 143
focus, sprint process emphasis on, 32
Foundation Medicine sprint, 16, 176–77, 185
FoundationOne, 176
Freeman, James, 21–25, 30, 103
Gebbia, Joe, 210–11
genetic analysis, in cancer treatments, 176
George Mason University, 38
Getting Things Done (Allen), 108–9
Giarusso, Serah, 24, 103
Glitch (video game), 128–29, 143
Gmail, 2, 4
goals, ambitious, 229
goals, long-term, 55–57, 61, 67, 110, 138, 141, 147
dangerous assumptions and, 56–57
in Flatiron Health sprint, 62–63
Goldilocks quality, 170, 207
Gonzalez, Tony, 171–72
Google, 60
experimentation culture of, 1
self-driving car of, 16
Google Earth, 83
Google Forms, 121
Google Hangouts, 3
Google Search, 4
Google Ventures (GV), 4–6, 7, 12, 15, 16, 60, 85, 113, 130, 171, 176, 201, 231
Google X, 4
Grace, Merci, 130, 131, 143–44, 152, 156, 175, 216–17, 221, 222
Graco sprint, 27–28
Green, Bobby, 76, 85, 86
Grijalva, Dave, 171–74
Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone (Rowling), 196, 196n
heat map, in deciding process, 131, 132–35
high stakes, as challenge, 26
honesty, in deciding process, 139–40
hotels, guest satisfaction and, 10, 56
Howard, Ron, 53
How Might We notes, 68, 73–82, 110
in Blue Bottle sprint, 73–74
challenges and, 77–78
in Flatiron Health sprint, 76–78
maps and, 81–82
organizing, 79–80
prioritizing, 80–81
target and, 87
HTML, 184
Hurley, Chad, 6
IdeaPaint, 44
IDEO, 73
illusion, 165–66
see also façades
Incredibles, The (film), 149
Indian Ocean, 84
industrial companies, sprints and, 27–28
Ingram, Alex, 62, 76
interruptions, productivity and, 38–39
Interviewer, 188, 190, 204–5, 217, 225
tips for, 212–15
interviews, 196–200, 201–15
being a good host in, 212
broken questions in, 214–15
context questions in, 202, 205–6
curiosity mindset in, 215
debriefing in, 202, 209–10
detailed tasks in, 202, 208–9
as emotional roller coaster for sprint team, 197
feedback in, 207
in FitStar sprint, 197, 206
in FitStar test, 208
five-act structure of, 202
ideal number of customers for, 197–99
introducing prototypes in, 202, 206–7
in One Medical sprint, 199–200
open-ended vs. leading questions in, 212–13
power of, 210–11
schedule of, 199
in Slack sprint, 217
team observation of, see interviews, learning from
thinking aloud in, 207–8
welcome in, 202, 204–5
“why” questions in, 199–200
interviews, learning from: in Blue Bottle sprint, 223–24
in Flatiron Health sprint, 224
group note-taking in, 219–21
importance of real-time team observation in, 202–4, 218–19
looking for patterns in, 222
in Savioke sprint, 223
in Slack sprint, 220–21, 223
sprint questions and, 222–23
Invite Media, 60
iPads, 171–73, 178, 189
as banned from sprint room, 41
JavaScript, 184
Keynote, 171, 173, 175, 176, 177, 178, 184–85, 186
Knapp, Jake, 24, 27–28, 30, 47, 48, 60, 62, 76, 77, 85, 107n, 109
Kowitz, Braden, 5, 22, 23–24, 30, 43, 60, 76, 156, 216
Kranz, Gene, 53, 55, 85
Lachapelle, Serge, 3
Lancelotta, Mary Pat, 176
Landauer, Thomas K., 198n
laptops, as banned from sprint room, 41
Lau, Tessa, 11, 12, 178
lean development, 17
learning, see interviews, learning from
Lightning Demos, 96–101, 110
Lord of the Rings, The (Tolkien), 59, 60
Lowe, David, 27
McKinsey & Company, 230
Makers, 187, 188
mapping the problem, 16, 59–67, 110, 230
in Blue Bottle sprint, 23–24, 65, 66
division of labor and, 101–2
experts and, 69–70, 76, 77
in Flatiron Health sprint, 62–63
How Might We notes and, 81–82, 85
in Savioke sprint, 10, 64–65, 66
steps in, 66
as story, 65–66
target and, 84, 85–86
Margolis, Michael, 5, 12, 60, 62, 201–2, 203, 204, 206, 208, 209, 212, 214, 216, 217
Maris, Bill, 4–5
markers, dry-erase, 75
marketing experts, 34
Maser, Mike, 171–73
“Mathematical Model of the Finding of Usability Problems, A” (Nielsen and Landauer), 198n
mechanics, of product or service, 70–71
Medium, 6
Medium sprint, 224
Meehan, Bryan, 22
meetings, frustrations of, 127–28, 230
Microsoft Word, 186
Mid-Ocean Ridge, 83–84, 87
“Mind Reader, The” (Blue Bottle solution sketch), 104–6, 115
Mission Control, 53–54, 225
Move Loot sprint, 113
movies, façades in, 165–66, 173
My Neighbor Totoro (film), 98
NASA, 54
Nest, 16
Newton, Alice, 195–96
Newton, Nigel, 195–96
New York Times, 15, 130, 152, 153, 188
Nielsen, Jakob, 197–98, 198n
no-devices rule, 41, 110
Note-and-Vote, 146–47
note-taking: on interviews, 219–21
sketching and, 109, 110
see also How Might We notes
Ocean’s Eleven (film), 29–30, 36, 37, 225
oﬃce supplies, for sprint rooms, 45
One Medical Group sprint, 180–82, 185–86, 199
opening scene, 188
OstrichCo, 139–40
paper, for sprint rooms, 44
paper coﬀee filters, 95–96
patterns, in customer reactions to prototypes, 222
permission, Facilitators and, 89
personal trainers, 171
phones, as banned from sprint room, 41
Photoshop, 184
Pitt, Brad, 29, 36
Pixar, 149
plate tectonics, 84
PlayStation, 178
Porter, Josh, 89
Post-It notes, see sticky notes
PowerPoint, 184, 186
previous eﬀorts, see existing solutions
priorities, setting, 54–55
“Priority Inbox” project, 2–3
Procter & Gamble, 73
productivity, interruptions and, 38–39
progress, rapid, from sprint process, 31
prototype mindset, 168–69, 230
prototypes, prototyping, 16, 60, 183–90
actors and scripts in, 186
appearance of reality in, 169–70
Asset Collector in, 188
in Blue Bottle sprint, 25, 28, 104–6
Brochure Façades in, 185
Deciders and, 31, 32
deciding on, see deciding
as disposable, 169
division of labor in, 183, 187
façades and, see façades
Facilitator and, 187
in FitStar sprint, 189
focus on learning from, 169
in Foundation Medicine sprint, 185
Goldilocks quality in, 170
in Graco sprint, 27–28
Interviewer in, 188, 190
Makers in, 187
mindset and, 168–69
in One Medical sprint, 199
picking right tools for, 183–86
in Priority Inbox sprint, 3
Rumbles and, 143–47
in Savioke sprint, 9, 10, 11–12, 185
sketching and, 104–6
in SquidCo sprint, 30–31
Stitcher in, 183, 187, 189
storyboard scenes and, 188, 189–90
trial run in, 183, 189–90
universal application of, 169
using existing objects or spaces in, 186
Writer in, 187–88
questions: in interviews, 212–14
obvious, Facilitators and, 90
questions, finding answers to, 138, 141, 147
in Blue Bottle sprint, 23
in FitStar sprint, 171
in Flatiron Health sprint, 62–63, 88
in Foundation Medicine sprint, 176–77
in Graco sprint, 27–28
and learning from interviews, 222–23
in One Medical sprint, 180
role of sprints in, 15, 16–17, 67
in Savioke sprint, 9, 10, 178
in Slack sprint, 175, 216–17, 222–23
Starting at the End and, 55–58
surface and, 28
see also How Might We notes
reaction, feedback vs., 169–70
Relay robot, 7, 14, 56
eyes of, 97–98
guest satisfaction and, 10
guests’ responses to, 13
“personality” of, 11, 13, 71, 178, 179
risk-taking, 156, 166
robot helpers, human interaction with, 8–9, 10
Rogers, Jan, 46–47
Rogers, Loran, 46, 48
rooms, for sprints, 41–45
Rumbles, 143–47, 223
in Blue Bottle sprint, 146
Deciders in, 145, 146
fake brands in, 145–46
Note-and-Vote in, 146–47
single-prototype vs., 145, 147
in Slack sprint, 144, 145
Savioke Labs sprint, 7–15, 26, 33, 64, 66, 71, 119, 145, 153, 157, 178–79, 185, 223
better guest experience as goal of, 56, 84
schedule, clearing space for sprints in, 10, 39, 40–41
screener surveys, in recruiting test customers, 119–21
Scribe, in speed critique, 135–36
Seattle, Wash., 229
Sharpies, 75n
simplicity, in maps, 66
sketching, 16, 60, 102, 103–18
abstract ideas and, 106–7
in Blue Bottle sprint, 24, 103–4, 108, 113
Crazy 8s exercise in, 109, 111–13
in Move Loot sprint, 113
prototypes and, 104–6
of rough ideas, 109, 111
solution sketches in, see solution sketches
taking notes in, 109, 110
as working alone together, 107–9
Slack sprint, 129–31, 143–44, 149–58, 175, 216, 217, 220–21, 222, 223
expansion into new markets as challenge for, 129–30
Smithsonian Institute, 228
snacks, for sprints, 45
solution sketches, 109, 114–18
anonymity of, 114–15
in Blue Bottle sprint, 116–17
deciding on, see deciding
as explanatory, 114
importance of words in, 115
maybe-laters in, 142, 155
single-scene, 114, 117
in Slack sprint, 130
sticky notes and, 114
storyboard format in, 114, 116
titles for, 115
winners in, 141–42
speed critique: in deciding process, 131, 135–37
Scribe in, 135–36
sprints: checklists for, 232–49
clearing calendars for, 10, 39, 40–41
concept of, 3
daily schedule in, 39, 40–41, 90–91
deciding process in, see deciding
façades in, see façades
as five-day process, 5–6, 9, 16, 40–41
frequently asked questions about, 251–57
learning from, see interviews, learning from
no-devices rule in, 41, 110
origin of, 2–5
prototypes in, see prototypes, prototyping
questions to be answered in, see questions, finding answers to; tests, real-world
risk-taking in, 166
Rumbles in, 143–47
setting priorities in, 54–55
storyboards in, see storyboarding
time allocation in, 38–41
timers for, 46–48
uncovering dangerous assumptions through, 56–57
universal application of, 229–30
versatility of, 5–6, 229–30
wide application of, 5–6
working alone together in, 107–9
work rooms for, 41–45
Squarespace, 186
SquidCo sprint, 30–31, 32, 139
Starting at the End, 5, 53–58
in Apollo 13 rescue, 53–54
in Blue Bottle sprint, 55–56, 57
in Flatiron Health sprint, 62–63
long-term goals and, 55–57, 61, 62–63, 67
questions to be answered in, 55–58, 62–63, 67
in Savioke sprint, 56
setting priorities in, 54–55
startups, 231
sprints and, 4–5, 15–16, 27
Starwood, 9
sticky notes: poster-size, 43, 44
solution sketches and, 114
see also How Might We notes
Stitcher, 187, 189
storyboarding, 125, 148–58
“artist” for, 151, 154–55, 156
assigning prototyping tasks from, 188, 189–90
in Blue Bottle sprint, 153, 157, 188
competitors’ products in, 154
copywriting in, 155–56
Decider in, 156
detail in, 156
in Flatiron Health sprint, 153
maybe-laters in, 155
opening scene in, 152–53
resisting new ideas in, 155
risk-taking in, 156
in Savioke sprint, 153, 157
in Slack sprint, 149–53, 156
solution sketches as, 114, 116
test-time limits and, 157
story-centered design, 5
strategy, 70
straw polls, 87–88
in deciding process, 131, 138–40
successes, flawed, 223–24
supervotes, 143, 144
in deciding process, 131, 140–42, 143
surface, as contact point between product and customer, 28
target, 82, 83–88
in Blue Bottle sprint, 84–85, 101
Decider and, 31, 32, 85–88
in Flatiron Health sprint, 85–87, 88
How Might We notes and, 87
key customers in, 85–86
key event in, 85–86
maps and, 84, 85–86
in Savioke sprint, 84
straw polls and, 87–88
Tcho, 97
team processes, 1
teams, 29–37, 218
in Blue Bottle sprint, 22–24, 33
challenges and, 68
choosing members of, 33, 34–36
Deciders in, see Deciders
division of labor in, 101–2
experts and, see Ask the Experts
Facilitators in, see Facilitators
ideal size of, 33
interviews observed by, see interviews, learning from
in Ocean’s Eleven, 29–30
teams (cont.) in Savioke sprint, 9–11, 33
in SquidCo sprint, 30–31
troublemakers in, 35
tech/logistic experts, 34
“Tenacious Tour, The” (Slack solution sketch), 144, 175, 217, 220–21, 222
tests, real-world, 5, 16, 231
in Blue Bottle sprint, 25
competitors’ products in, 154
Deciders and, 31, 32
in FitStar sprint, 173–74
in Graco sprint, 27–28
interview in, see interviews
recruiting customers for, 119–23, 197
in Savioke sprint, 10, 11–13, 15

time units in, 157

Tharp, Marie, 83–84

3D printing, 27, 185, 186

tight deadlines, 109

time, allocation of, for sprints, 38–41

timers, in deciding process, 136, 138

Time Timers, 46–48

Tolkien, J. R. R., 59

Toy Story (film), 149

trade-oﬀs, in sprint process, 31

troublemakers, in teams, 35

Tse, Alison, 12, 178, 179

Turner, Nat, 60–62

23andMe, 6

Twitter, 6

Vision, 175

WalrusCo sprint, 69

Warren, Charles, 89

Washington Post, 15

Waugh, Chris, 180–81

website usability, 197

Weinberg, Zach, 60–61

whiteboards, 72, 89

in sprint room, 42–44

Wieden+Kennedy, 230

Williams, Ev, 6, 224

Willow Garage, 8

Wojcicki, Anne, 6

words, in solution sketches, 115

working alone together, 107–9

Wright, Orville and Wilbur, 227–28, 231

Writer, 187–88

writing, importance of, 115

Yale University, 107

Yaskawa, Izumi, 11

YouTube, 6

Zeratsky, John, 5, 7, 9, 22, 24, 30, 60, 76, 140, 189