9 TUESDAY Sketch

Serah Giarusso, Blue Bottle Coﬀee’s customer support lead, looked uneasy. And she wasn’t the only one. James Freeman, the CEO, furrowed his brow. It was Tuesday afternoon of Blue Bottle’s sprint. Sunlight made rectangles on the carpet. Somewhere on the street below, a car honked. And there, in the middle of the sprint room, on a coﬀee table, was the source of the team’s consternation: a stack of paper, a dozen clipboards, and a paper cup filled with black pens. Somebody cleared his throat. It was Byard Duncan, Blue Bottle’s communications manager. As everyone turned, he cracked a sheepish smile. “So . . . ,” he said. “What if I can’t draw?”

On Tuesday afternoon, it’s time to come up with solutions. But there will be no brainstorming; no shouting over one another; no deferring judgment so wacky ideas can flourish. Instead, you’ll work individually, take your time, and sketch. Even though we’re total tech nerds, we’re believers in the importance of starting on paper. It’s a great equalizer. Everyone can write words, draw boxes, and express his or her ideas with the same clarity. If you can’t draw (or rather, if you think you can’t draw), don’t freak out. Plenty of people worry about putting pen to paper, but anybody— absolutely anybody—can sketch a great solution.

To show you what we’re talking about, let’s take a look at one of the sketches that came out of Blue Bottle Coﬀee’s sprint—a solution called “The Mind Reader.” Each sticky note represents one page on Blue Bottle’s website. The big idea behind “The Mind Reader” was to organize the online store the same way a barista might talk with a customer. As you can see in the three frames, this solution leads with a welcome, then asks how the customer prepares coﬀee at home, before oﬀering recommendations and a brewing guide. There’s a lot of complexity to the idea, but the drawing itself was straightforward: mostly boxes and text, the kind of thing anyone can draw.

A solution from Blue Bottle Coﬀee’s sprint. Each sticky note represents one screen.

Later in the week, the team made a realistic prototype based on “The Mind Reader,” with details filled in from some of the other sketches. The prototype is on page 106. On Friday, when shown to real customers, “The Mind Reader” was remarkably eﬀective. Customers grew confident in the quality of the coﬀee as they clicked through the website. They found beans they wanted to order. They described the prototype as “way better” than competing retailers and mentioned that “clearly, these people know coffee.” It was the big winner of Friday’s test, and it became the foundation for Blue Bottle’s new website.

So, who sketched that solution? It wasn’t a designer, an architect, or an illustrator. It was Byard Duncan, the Man Who Couldn’t Draw. See, Tuesday afternoon is about sketching, but more importantly, it’s about solutions. When your team evaluates these sketches on Wednesday to decide which are best, and when you test your prototype on Friday, it will be the quality of the solutions that matters, not the artistry of the drawings from which they came.

The power of sketching

Imagine you’ve got a great idea. You’ve been thinking about it for weeks. You go to work, describe the idea to your teammates, and . . . they just stare at you. Maybe you aren’t explaining it well. Maybe the timing isn’t right. For whatever reason, they just can’t picture it. Totally frustrating, right? It’s about to get worse. Now imagine your boss suggests an alternative idea. It just popped into his head, and you can tell right away that the idea isn’t thought out and won’t work. But all your teammates nod their heads! Maybe it’s because the boss’s idea is vague and each person is interpreting it in his or her own way. Maybe everyone is just supporting him because he’s the boss. Either way, it’s game over. Okay, come back to reality. That was an imaginary scenario, but it’s the sort of thing that happens when people make decisions about abstract ideas.

Work alone together

We know that individuals working alone generate better solutions than groups brainstorming out loud.* Working alone oﬀers time to do research, find inspiration, and think about the problem. And the pressure of responsibility that comes with working alone often spurs us to our best work. But working alone isn’t easy. The individual has to not only solve the problem, but also invent a strategy for solving the problem. If you’ve ever sat down to work on a big project and wound up reading the news instead, you know how hard this work can be. In our sprints, we work alone, but we follow specific steps to help everyone focus and make progress. When each person sketches alone, he or she will have time for deep thought. When the whole team works in parallel, they’ll generate competing ideas, without the groupthink of a group brainstorm. You might call this method “work alone together.”

Because abstract ideas lack concrete detail, it’s easy for them to be undervalued (like your idea) or overvalued (like the boss’s idea). On Tuesday, we’re not asking you to sketch because we think it’s fun. We’re asking you to sketch because we’re convinced it’s the fastest and easiest way to transform abstract ideas into concrete solutions. Once your ideas become concrete, they can be critically and fairly evaluated by the rest of the team—without any sales pitch. And, perhaps most important of all, sketching allows every person to develop those concrete ideas while working alone.

* Jake learned the trouble with group brainstorms the hard way, but plenty of researchers have come to the same conclusion. One example is a study at Yale in 1958. Individuals competed with brainstorming groups to solve the same problem. The individuals dominated. They generated more solutions, and their solutions were independently judged to be higher quality and more original. In your face, group brainstorming! And yet . . . over half a century later, teams are still running group brainstorms. Perhaps it’s because “brainstorm” is such a catchy name.

The sketches you create on Tuesday will become the fuel for the rest of the sprint. On Wednesday, you’ll critique everyone’s sketches and pick the best ones. On Thursday, you’ll turn them into a prototype. And on Friday you’ll test the ideas with customers. That’s a lot of mileage out

of a few drawings, and it might make you think we’re expecting a work of genius straight out of Leonardo da Vinci’s notebook. Not so. To put the power of the sketch in perspective, let’s check out a few more solutions from the Blue Bottle sprint: Three solution sketches from Blue Bottle Coﬀee’s sprint. As you can see, these sketches are detailed, but they’re not works of art. Each sketch consists of words, boxes, and the occasional stick figure, drawn on normal printer paper and normal sticky notes with a normal pen. Simple, right? So . . . Okay, you’re all set. Go ahead and sketch a great solution! We’re just kidding. That blank sheet of paper always intimidates us. So, inspired by productivity expert David Allen, we break the process into steps. In his book Getting Things Done, Allen provides a smart strategy for daunting jobs. The secret, Allen writes, is not to think about the task as one monolithic eﬀort (like “Pay taxes”), but instead to find the first small action needed to make progress (like “Collect tax paperwork”) and go from there.

The four-step sketch

TUESDAY

When Jake first started running sprints, he tried to re-create his own most successful work sessions. He was most eﬀective when he took time to “boot up” by reviewing key information, started his design work on paper, considered multiple variations, and then took time to create a detailed solution. And, since Jake is a world-class procrastinator, he was also most eﬀective when under a tight deadline.

The four-step sketch contains each of these important elements. You’ll start with twenty minutes to “boot up” by taking notes on the goals, opportunities, and inspiration you’ve collected around the room. Then you’ll have another twenty minutes to write down rough ideas. Next, it’s time to limber up and explore alternative ideas with a rapid sketching exercise called Crazy 8s. And finally, you’ll take thirty minutes or more to draw your solution sketch—a single well-formed concept with all the details worked out.

1. Notes

This first step is super-easy. You and your team will walk around the room, look at the whiteboards, and take notes. These notes are a “greatest hits” from the past twenty-four hours of the sprint. They’re a way to refresh your memory before you commit to a solution.

First, copy down the long-term goal. Next, look at the map, the How Might We questions, and the notes from your Lightning Demos. Write down anything that looks useful. Don’t worry about coming up with any new ideas, and don’t worry about being neat. These notes are for your eyes only.

Give your team twenty minutes to take notes. During this time, feel free to look up reference material on your laptop or phone. Sometimes people want to take a second look at something they saw in the morning’s Lightning Demos or research some specific details from their company’s own product or website. Whatever the purpose, this moment is a rare exception to the no-devices rule.

And don’t forget to reexamine old ideas. Remember, they’re often the strongest solutions of all. At the end of notes time, the team closes their laptops and phones. Take another three minutes to review what you wrote down. Circle the notes that stand out. They’ll help you in the next step.

2. Ideas

Now that everyone has a pile of notes, it’s time to switch into idea mode. In this step, each person will jot down rough ideas, filling a sheet of paper with doodles, sample headlines, diagrams, stick figures doing stuﬀ—anything that gives form to his or her thoughts. It doesn’t matter if these ideas are messy or incomplete. Just like the notes, these pages won’t be shared with the whole team. Think of them as a “scratch pad.” And there’s no wrong way to do it. As long as everyone is thinking and writing stuﬀ on paper, you’re on the golden path. Your ideas might look like this, or they might not. As long as you’re writing things down, you’re on the right track.

Take twenty minutes for idea generation. When you’re finished, spend an extra three minutes to review and circle your favorite ideas. In the next step, you’ll refine those promising elements.

3. Crazy 8s

Crazy 8s is a fast-paced exercise. Each person takes his or her strongest ideas and rapidly sketches eight variations in eight minutes. forces you to push past your first reasonable solutions and make them better, or at least consider alternatives. And before you get the wrong idea, the “crazy” in Crazy 8s refers to the pace, not the nature of the ideas. Forget about the traditional brainstorm advice to be goofy. We want you to focus on good ideas— the ones you believe will work and help you hit your goals—and use Crazy 8s to tweak and expand on those good ideas.

Each person begins Crazy 8s with a single sheet of letter-size paper. Fold the paper in half three times, so you have eight panels. Set a timer to sixty seconds. Hit “start” and begin sketching—you have sixty seconds per section, for a total of eight minutes to create eight miniature sketches. Go fast and be messy: As with the notes and ideas, Crazy 8s will not be shared with the team.

The exercise works best when you sketch several variations of the same idea. Take a favorite piece from your ideas sheet and ask yourself, “What would be another good way to do this?” Keep going until you can’t think of any more variations, then look back at your ideas sheet, choose a new idea, and start riﬃng on it instead.

Crazy 8s is also a great writing exercise. If your idea contains words or marketing headlines or any other bits of text, you can use Crazy 8s to improve your phrasing. As you’ll see in the next step, writing is often the most important component of the solution sketch.

Crazy 8s from the Blue Bottle Coﬀee sprint. The frames show experiments with phrasing (“hand pour coﬀee” vs. “pour over coﬀee”), navigation, and page layout.

Sometimes Crazy 8s leads to a revelation. You might come away with several new ways of looking at your ideas. Other times, it feels less productive. Sometimes that first idea really is the best idea. Either way, Crazy 8s helps you consider alternatives—and also serves as an excellent warm-up for the main event.

The GV team sketches with the founders of a startup called Move Loot.

4. Solution sketch

Remember how we kept saying, “Don’t worry, nobody’s going to look at this”? That time is over. The solution sketch is each person’s best idea, put down on paper in detail. Each one is an opinionated hypothesis for how to solve the challenge at hand. These sketches will be looked at—and judged!—by the rest of the team. They need to be detailed, thought-out, and easy to understand.

Each sketch will be a three-panel storyboard drawn on sticky notes, showing what your customers see as they interact with your product or service. We like this storyboard format because products and services are more like movies than snapshots. Customers don’t just appear in one freeze frame and then disappear in the next. Instead, they move through your solution like actors in a scene. Your solution has to move right along with them.

We usually use the three-panel format, but there are exceptions. Sometimes, a sprint will be focused on a single part of the customer experience. For instance: the home page, the front page of a medical report, the oﬃce lobby, or even the cover of a book. If your team has a “single scene” challenge, you might want to create a full-page sketch so you can show even more detail.

With either format, there are a few important rules to keep in mind:

1. Make it self-explanatory

On Wednesday morning, you’ll post your sketch on the wall for everyone to see. It needs to explain itself. Think of this sketch as the first test for your idea. If no one can understand it in sketch form, it’s not likely to do any better when it’s polished.

2. Keep it anonymous

Don’t put your name on your sketch, and be sure that everyone uses the same paper and the same black pens. On Wednesday, when you evaluate everyone’s sketch, this anonymity will make it much easier to critique and choose the best ideas.

3. Ugly is okay

Your sketch does not have to be fancy (boxes, stick figures, and words are fine), but it does have to be detailed, thoughtful, and complete. Be as neat as you can, but don’t worry if you’re not much of an artist. However . . .

4. Words matter

We’ve used sprints with startups in all kinds of industries. One surprising constant: the importance of writing. Strong writing is especially necessary for software and marketing, where words often make up most of the screen. But choosing the right words is critical in every medium. So pay extra close attention to the writing in your sketch. Don’t use “lorem ipsum” or draw those squiggly lines that mean “text will go here.” That text will go a long way to explain your idea—so make it good and make it real!

5. Give it a catchy title

Since your name won’t be on your sketch, give it a title. Later, these titles will help you keep track of the diﬀerent solutions as you’re reviewing and choosing. They’re also a way to draw attention to the big idea in your solution sketch. (Byard Duncan titled his “The Mind Reader,” partly for fun and partly to highlight the idea of making the perfect coﬀee match.)

Okay, get your paper ready. Refer to your notes, ideas, and Crazy 8s. Then uncap your pens, fasten your safety belts, and make sure your seat backs and tray tables are in their fully upright and locked positions. Your solution sketches are ready for takeoﬀ.

A solution sketch from the Blue Bottle Coﬀee sprint. To understand how this idea works, read the notes from top to bottom—as you would a comic book: In the top frame, the customer reads a how-to guide for brewing coﬀee. In the second frame, she clicks on a link to recommended coﬀee beans. In the third frame, she finds details about the beans.

Here’s a single-sheet version of that same sketch from Blue Bottle’s sprint. Instead of a storyboard, the entire page portrays one screen of the online store in detail.

Each person is responsible for creating one solution sketch. If a few folks get inspired and want to sketch more than one, that’s okay, but don’t overdo it. Each additional sketch means more work reviewing and narrowing down on Wednesday. Not only that, but we’ve noticed that the first batch tend to be the strongest and there are diminishing returns beyond ten to twelve solution sketches.

Thirty minutes should be enough time for everyone to finish one sketch. Once everybody is finished, put the solution sketches in a pile, but resist the urge to look at them. You’ll only see them for the first time once, and you should save those fresh eyes for Wednesday.

FACILITATOR NOTES

Find Customers for Friday

On Monday or Tuesday, we start the process of finding customers for Friday’s test. That means one person needs to do some extra work outside of the sprint. It takes all week—but only an hour or two a day—to screen, select, and recruit the best matches. Ideally, someone besides the Facilitator should take responsibility for recruiting, since the Facilitator will be busy enough as it is.

There are two ways to find the right customers for your test. If you have fairly easy-to-find customers, you’ll use Craigslist. If you have hard-to-find customers, you’ll use your network.

Recruit customers with Craigslist

Most of the time, to recruit people who exactly match our target customer, we use Craigslist. We know it sounds crazy, but it works. It’s how we found perfect participants for our tests with Savioke and Blue Bottle Coﬀee—and dozens of other companies. The secret is to post a generic ad that will attract a broad audience, then link to a screener survey to narrow down to your target customers.

First, you’ll write your generic ad. You want to be sure you don’t reveal what you’re testing or the kind of customer you’re seeking. We oﬀer a small stipend or token of appreciation— usually a $100 gift card—to pique the interest of potential customers. Post in the “et cetera jobs” with something like this:

$100 customer research interviews on August 2 (San Francisco)

I’m scheduling 60-minute research interviews in San Francisco on Thursday, August 2. Selected participants who complete the interviews will receive $100 Amazon gift cards. Please complete this short questionnaire. Click here.

As you can see, this ad could be about anything—coﬀee, robots, coﬀee robots, whatever. A generic ad in a big city may attract hundreds of applicants, so with the right screener, you’ll be able to find five people who fit your customer profile.

Write a screener survey

The screener survey is a simple questionnaire for interested people to fill out. You’ll need to ask the right questions to find the right people. Start by writing down characteristics of the customers you want to test with, then translate those characteristics into something you can discover with your survey. Do the same thing for characteristics you want to exclude (for example, people with too much expertise in your industry).

Blue Bottle Coﬀee wanted to interview “coﬀee-drinking foodies.” To find these customers, we used measurable criteria like: they drink at least one cup of coﬀee per day, they read food-related blogs and magazines, and they eat at restaurants at least once per week. We excluded people who didn’t make coﬀee at home or drank coﬀee infrequently.

Next, write questions for every one of your criteria. It’s important to write questions that don’t reveal the “right” answers—some people will try to game the survey just so they can get the gift card. For example, rather than asking people whether they go to restaurants, ask: “In a typical week, how many times do you eat out?” Instead of asking if applicants read food blogs, try something like this: “Do you regularly read blogs or magazines dedicated to any of the following topics?

❏ Sports
❏ Food
❏ News
❏ Coﬀee
❏ Cocktails
❏ Parenting
❏ Gardening
❏ Cars

In each of these examples, we had a “right” answer in mind, but there was no way that the person filling out the survey could predict what it was.

After you’ve turned your criteria into questions, create your survey. We always use Google Forms—it’s easy to set up, and the responses go right into a Google spreadsheet that you can sort and filter.

Once your screener survey is ready and your ad is live on Craigslist, the responses will start rolling in. Look through the survey results and pick out customers who match your criteria. By Wednesday afternoon, you can start getting in touch with people and scheduling your interviews for Friday.

Craigslist works surprisingly well for finding customers who aren’t familiar with your company. But what about existing customers or “hard-to-find” professionals with uncommon jobs? You’ll need a diﬀerent strategy.

Recruit customers through your network

Finding existing customers is generally pretty easy. You probably already have the means to reach them—consider email newsletters, in-store posters, Twitter, Facebook, or even your own website.

The hard-to-find customers are not actually so hard to find, either. Here’s why: If you’re an oncology company, you probably know some oncologists. If you’re working in finance, you probably know other people who work in finance. And so on. Your sales or business-development teams can help you get in touch. And if that fails, you can reach out to professional associations, community groups, student groups, or your personal network.

When we interviewed restaurant managers for a sprint back in 2011, we got in touch with the membership director of a local restaurant association.

Whether you’re seeking out hard-to-find customers, existing customers, or recruiting a broad audience on Craigslist, there’s one part of the process that shouldn’t change. Make sure potential interview candidates match your screening criteria. With only five interviews, it’s important to talk to the right people.

The entire sprint depends on getting good data in Friday’s test, so whoever takes charge of recruiting your customers should take the job seriously. Even though this recruiting happens behind the scenes, it’s as important as the team activities. For a sample screening survey and other online resources, take a look at thesprintbook.com.

Wednesday

By Wednesday morning, you and your team will have a stack of solutions. That’s great, but it’s also a problem. You can’t prototype and test them all—you need one solid plan. In the morning, you’ll critique each solution, and decide which ones have the best chance of achieving your long-term goal. Then, in the afternoon, you’ll take the winning scenes from your sketches and weave them into a storyboard: a step-by-step plan for your prototype.