15 Small Data FRIDAY

One August evening in 1996, a publisher named Nigel Newton left his oﬃce in London’s Soho district and headed home, carrying a stack of papers. Among them were fifty sample pages from a book he needed to review, but Newton didn’t have high hopes for it. The manuscript had already been rejected by eight other publishers. Newton didn’t read the sample pages that evening. Instead, he handed them over to his eight-year-old daughter, Alice. Alice read them. About an hour later, she returned from her room, her face glowing with excitement. “Dad,” she said, “this is so much better than anything else.” She wouldn’t stop talking about the book. She wanted to finish reading it, and she pestered her father—for months—until he tracked down the rest. Eventually, spurred by his daughter’s insistence, Newton signed the author to a modest contract and printed five hundred copies.

That book, which barely made it to the public, was Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone.* You know the rest of the story. Today, there are hundreds of millions of Harry Potter books in print worldwide. How did publishers get it so wrong? Eight experts in children’s publishing turned Harry Potter down—and the ninth, Newton, only printed five hundred copies. But Alice, an eight-year-old, knew right away that it was “so much better than anything else.” Alice didn’t analyze Harry Potter’s potential. She didn’t think about cover art, distribution, movie rights, or a theme park. She just reacted to what she read. Those grown-ups tried to predict what children would think, and they were wrong. Alice got it right because she actually was a kid. And her father was smart enough to listen.

When Nigel Newton showed Alice the Harry Potter manuscript, he got a glimpse into the future. He saw a target reader react to the book before he’d committed to printing a single copy. On Friday of your sprint, you and your team will experience that same kind of time warp. You’ll watch target customers react to your new ideas—before you’ve made the expensive commitment to launch them. Here’s how Friday works: One person from your team acts as Interviewer. He’ll interview five of your target customers, one at a time. He’ll let each of them try to complete a task with the prototype and ask a few questions to understand what they’re thinking as they interact with it. Meanwhile, in another room, the rest of the team will watch a video stream of the interview and make note of the customers’ reactions. * In the United States, the book was called Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone, due to the fact that philosophers are super dorky.

The FitStar team watches customers use their prototype for the first time. These interviews are an emotional roller coaster. When customers get confused by your prototype, you’ll be frustrated. If they don’t care about your new ideas, you’ll be disappointed. But when they complete a diﬃcult task, understand something you’ve been trying to explain for months, or if they pick your solution over the competition—you will be elated. After five interviews, the patterns will be easy to spot.

Now, we know that the idea of testing with such a small sample is unsettling to some folks. Is talking to just five customers worthwhile? Will the findings be meaningful? Earlier in the week, you recruited and carefully selected participants for your test who match the profile of your target customer. Because you’ll be talking to the right people, we’re convinced you can trust what they say. And we’re also convinced that you can learn plenty from just five of them. Jakob Nielsen is a user research expert. Back in the 1990s, he pioneered the field of website usability (the study of how to design websites that make sense to people). Over the course of his career, Nielsen has overseen thousands of customer interviews, and at some point he wondered: How many interviews does it take to spot the most important patterns?

Five is the magic number

So Nielsen analyzed eighty-three of his own product studies.* He plotted how many problems were discovered after ten interviews, twenty interviews, and so on. The results were both consistent and surprising: 85 percent of the problems were observed after just five people. Testing with more people didn’t lead to many more insights—just a lot more work. “The number of findings quickly reaches the point of diminishing returns,” Nielsen concluded. “There’s little additional benefit to running more than five people through the same study; ROI drops like a stone.” Instead of investing a great deal more time to find the last 15 percent, Nielsen realized he could just fix the 85 percent and test again. We’ve seen the same phenomenon in our own tests. By the time we observe the fifth customer, we’re just confirming patterns that showed up in the first four interviews. We tried testing with more customers, but as Nielsen says, it just wasn’t worth it. * Nielsen, Jakob, and Thomas K. Landauer, “A Mathematical Model of the Finding of Usability Problems,” Proceedings of ACM INTERCHI’93 Conference (Amsterdam, 24–29 April 1993), pp. 206–13.

Remember the door frame in One Medical’s prototype family clinic? After seeing two children nearly bounce out of their strollers as they rolled into the oﬃce, the problem was obvious. The team didn’t need to gather a thousand data points before they fixed it. The same thing with crowding in the lobby and desks in the exam room. When two or three people out of five have the same strong reaction—positive or negative—you should pay attention.

The number five also happens to be very convenient. You can fit five one-hour interviews into a single day, with time for a short break between each one and a team debrief at the end:
9:00 a.m.
10:00
10:30
11:30
12:30 p.m.
1:30
2:00
3:00
3:30
4:30
Interview #1
Break
Interview #2
Early lunch
Interview #3
Break
Interview #4
Break
Interview #5
Debrief

This condensed schedule allows the whole team to watch the interviews together, and analyze them firsthand. This means no waiting for results, and no second-guessing the interpretation.

One-on-one interviews are a remarkable shortcut. They allow you to test a façade of your product, long before you’ve built the real thing— and fallen in love with it. They deliver meaningful results in a single day. But they also oﬀer an important insight that’s nearly impossible to get with large-scale quantitative data: why things work or don’t work. That “why” is critical. If you don’t know why a product or service isn’t working, it’s hard to fix it. If One Medical had put desks in their family exam rooms, parents would have been frustrated. But it would have been diﬃcult to pinpoint the problem. By showing families a prototype clinic and interviewing them about the experience, One Medical found out the why behind the problem: Parents needed reassurance from the doctor, and even a tiny bit of distraction was too much.

When all you have is statistics, you have to guess what your customers are thinking. When you’re doing an interview, you can just . . . ask.

These interviews are easy to do. They don’t require special expertise or equipment. You won’t need a behavioral psychologist or a laser eye-tracker—just a friendly demeanor, a sense of curiosity, and a willingness to have your assumptions proven wrong. In the next chapter, we’ll show you how to do it.