00:00:08 [Brad Burnham]
Thank you, Magnus. Well, I have to say I'm very intimidated having watched the President stand up here with no notes and talk for 15 minutes or 20 minutes about all of the things that I care about, and so I am really kind of panicked at the thought of trying to follow that. I'm going to start by talking a little bit about Union Square Ventures and what we invest in. That's where I work. First, in doing that, my purpose is to, first of all, give you a sense of where we're coming from. I had a professor once who was teaching political science, and he said, you know, the important thing is where you stand depends on where you sit. So I'm going to tell you where I sit, and that will give you a little sense of why I'm approaching the problems that I'm going to talk about the way I am, and also a way of filtering my biases, because I do have biases. So we are information technology investors. We don't do nanotech or biotech or material science or energy or anything like that. We do information technology. And within that, we invest exclusively in the applications layer of the internet. We don't do chips, routers, infrastructure, telecom. We do the services that ride on top of all of that infrastructure. And within that, we invest in networks. So we don't invest in e-commerce, for instance. We invest in networks. And those networks bring together the creators of a service and the consumers of that service. And we do that because we think these networks are the most powerful and fundamentally transformative forces that we see today in the global economy. And why is that? Why do these networks have this ability? Well, they are actually bringing some really amazing economics to problems as diverse as housing, healthcare, finance. So how does that happen? Well, if you think about it, By connecting a creator and a consumer directly, you're cutting out what was the model for producing economic value for about 200 years. Interestingly, not 2,000 years, 200 years. The bureaucratic hierarchy, the organization, the firm, has only been a model for producing economic value for about 200 years, but that's the model that we know. But if you are, as an example, Lending Club, which is one of our portfolio companies, you connect a borrower directly with a lender over an information system. Well, think about the way that that was done in the past. There was a bank that took in deposits from people and then turned around and had a process for lending that deposit. That was a fairly high-cost process. Well, how is it possible that this happens on the internet? It happens because there's a layered architecture. The internet separates the communications layer, all of the you know, the problems of getting a bit from point A to point B from the applications layer. And, you know, if anybody's studying this, there's a whole sophisticated sort of seven-layer model for how it actually does that. That's kind of an accident. That was a bunch of engineers who designed it in that way. But the result of that is that you as an entrepreneur can reach a global audience without paying for any of that infrastructure. You know, historically, if I wanted to provide a service to somebody in Bangladesh, I basically had to construct a path to get my service from here to Bangladesh. Today, everybody assumes that that infrastructure is there. So I've separated the communications layer. The other piece of it is that that communications layer is open and permissionless. The president talked about this, talked about the importance of openness. The fact that anyone in this room can create a service and distribute it on the internet without asking a telecommunications company to distribute it for them, without asking a bank to package and distribute their products. They can create a product and distribute it directly to the web. What that's doing, if you think about it, is it's making it possible for probably the biggest explosion of creativity in the last, well, certainly in the last couple hundred years. And we're seeing that on the internet today. We're seeing fabulous efficiencies in the creation of new companies. Probably 100 times faster than Foursquare got to 100,000 users on $25,000, that Tumblr was in 100 countries when they had 12 people. That wasn't possible 15 years ago. It is possible today. So it's that creativity that makes possible. It's that layered architecture, the free distribution, the low cost of creating new companies, the existence of open source software, the permissionless model of the internet that's making for this explosion and making for this opportunity in Iceland, but also for every entrepreneur all over the world. The way these services produce these economics, just to go down that, just to describe that in a little bit more detail, if you think of a company like Airbnb, for instance, Airbnb doesn't actually provide a hotel service. It connects somebody who has a spare bedroom with somebody who has an interest in traveling or staying in Iceland. If you think of Halo or Uber, these are both e-hailing services for the transportation industry. It's no longer a a dispatcher who you call to say, I need a cab in front of the Hilton to take me to Harpa, you're actually connecting directly with the driver. If you're using a ride-sharing service and somebody's traveling from Dusseldorf to Hamburg, you can go to carpooling and you can take advantage of that ride. Well, what's actually happening there? We're doing a much better job as a society of using existing resources. That person is going to travel from Dusseldorf to Hamburg anyway, right? If you put two people in that car, you eliminate the need for another form of transportation, right? If you can house people in spare bedrooms, you're making a much better use of that resource. We're improving the access to creativity on the Internet. We're also improving the use of assets. And it's that that sort of unlocks the economics. So this is really good for everybody, except for the high-cost bureaucratic hierarchies that provide the services today, except for the incumbents. Well, that's okay. This is part of the natural creative destruction of capitalism. We're going to move through and constantly evolve towards a more efficient model. That's what capitalism does. Unfortunately, the way the political process works, at least in the United States, is that the incumbents have an outsized influence in the formation of policy and the way regulations are created. Well, in the United States, that happens as a result of the way we finance campaigns and the fact that the incumbents have existing cash flows. The new startup companies tend not even to be politically aware, much less have the cash flows to participate in that game. And so what we see as a result is we see a series of proposals from the incumbents that would constrain the emergence of these new systems, these new models. When the city of New York received, debated, the city council in New York debated a law against temporary hotels a year and a half ago, nobody from the hotel industry lobby that proposed the law mentioned Airbnb. They did mention, you know, unscrupulous landlords who were converting flop houses into SROs and renting them out to unsavory people. And they came up with lots of reasons why this was a bad idea. And the city council actually had never heard of Airbnb, so they had no idea. That the language that was being proposed would actually constrain the emergence of this new model. But the hotel industry knew that. The hotel industry actually wrote the language and suggested it to the city council. So we have a law in the city of New York that outlaws temporary hotels, and we've begun suing, not suing, we've begun fining Airbnb hosts for hosting guests in their spare bedrooms. So this is going to be a problem. And it's going to be a problem because we are constraining the natural evolution of the economy. And if you think about the remarks about anti-fragile and the ability to create an environment which benefits from randomness, which benefits as it's exposed to randomness, I think what you really want is one that does that in a graceful way. You could argue that, and the President did argue, that Iceland benefited from the financial collapse. I think that's true. In New York City, we had the same financial collapse, and the startup community in New York benefited greatly from the financial collapse. Wouldn't it be better if we could limit the amount of damage? If we could, instead of waiting for a very big pent-up problem to crash and then rebuild from that, wouldn't it be better to have lots of small crashes that were spread across the economy, affected nobody as dramatically as the financial collapse affected us? Well, that is what you're looking for in an anti-fragile system. Unfortunately, to the degree that the incumbents are able to use policy and regulation to resist the emergence of these new hyper-efficient models, The result of that is not going to be that the hyper-efficient models don't ultimately win because it's kind of like grass growing up through the pavement. It will ultimately win, right? The result of that is going to be that the collapse is going to be much more disruptive, right? It's not going to be small. It's not going to be incremental. It's not going to be graceful. It's going to be much more disruptive. So what can you as members of the startup community do to help, you know, move through this part of our sort of natural economic evolution? Well, the first thing I think we have to do is may seem like a little bit of a contradiction. The first thing I think we have to do is recognize that there is a role for the government in the economy. And there is a role for regulation. A lot of people who are sort of internet purists or internet libertarians or internet utopians, cyber utopians, believe that we just want to let the internet run and all of these problems will work out. You know, there are going to be problems with there being unscrupulous landlords on Airbnb. There are nasty drivers on Uber. There are going to be problems in this economy. And so we need to recognize that these problems exist. We need to recognize that. Yes, you as an entrepreneur can reach a customer in Bangladesh, but a unscrupulous hacker in Russia can also steal money from your mother across the globe. So we have to recognize that there is a role. If we recognize that, we can begin a dialogue with how to do it. The second thing we need to do is recognize that It's going to be the natural inclination of regulators and politicians to try and manage the economy in a way that they understand. And they don't completely understand the internet. Many of the people that run the policy process in the United States are still having secretaries print out their emails. So this is a new world for them. So we need to help educate them on how to work with this. You know, the second important piece. Recognize that there is a role and then think about how that role can be sort of reinvented to take advantage of this new network as opposed to try and fight against it. So I'm going to throw out a notion that I call Regulation 2.0. And, you know, in thinking about that, the key is: Instead of a policymaker or a regulator thinking of the internet as the problem, they should be thinking of the internet as the solution. So let me give you an example in the area of regulating transportation. Today, in the city of New York, the way we regulate the taxi industry is we put inspectors on the street in cars, usually unmarked cars, and they flag. They flag taxi drivers who are doing things that they don't think are legal, running around with passengers with their off-duty sign on and things like that. Then they flag them and they give them a ticket. That is a very high-cost model. If you think of what an Uber or Lyft does, because it's a network that connects a driver directly with a passenger, there is an enormous amount of information in that network. You know where the ride was picked up, where the passenger was picked up. You know where the passenger went. You know exactly how they traveled. You know how long it took them to travel that route. You know exactly how much they paid. The driver rates the passenger, and the passenger rates the driver. That's an enormous amount of information that a regulator has never seen before in their lives. If the regulators recognize that and are willing to work with that network, then there's a tremendous opportunity. The problem is that we are actually treating, the regulators are still treating these networks as the problem, not the solution. And therefore, they're trying to put them in a box. They're trying to say, 'okay', that the network that links the driver and the passenger or that links the borrower and the lender is behaving as a bank or an educational institute or a hotel, and they're trying to regulate them with the same outdated regulations that they regulate the existing model. And as a result, the networks are very reluctant to share data with the regulators because if you're going to use the data that I give you to put me out of business, I'm not going to give you the data. So what we need to do is we need to say, okay, well, wait a minute. What if we understand that these are actually intermediaries and not? We're not actually driving anybody. We're not actually putting anybody up. We're not actually lending money. We're just facilitating that transaction between two willing parties. And then the regulator recognizes, okay, I've got to regulate the edge of that network, not the middle. And if I give that network some protection from liability, then I can expect them to share data with me, and that will give me the tool to efficiently manage the edge of that network. So that's a new model of regulation. So why do we need to think about this? We need to think about this because I think startups are going to have to engage in the political process. We have historically, as venture capitalists and startups, been kind of allergic to the political process. We haven't wanted to be involved. And for a long time, we haven't had to be involved. In the era where we were doing switches and routers and chips, those things are making some existing capability 10 times faster. That's completely apolitical. Nobody really cares. But when you move up into the applications layer and you challenge an incumbent in the area of financial services, people care. And you immediately have to become politically engaged. So we are going to have to become politically engaged. You know, it's interesting. One of the criticisms of our community that I think is deserved is that we have demonstrated that we can stop things. You know, when we really put our back up against the wall when there was really dramatic overreaching legislation in the US coming down the pike, the internet community kind of rose up and said no. And everybody was completely shocked when that happened, and it was very effective. But we haven't demonstrated that we can advocate for things. It's a much harder problem. If you think about it, you could argue that the open internet was a key factor in the emergence of the Arab Spring, in changing those societies across the Middle East. Demonstrated that it can build a new government, that it can build a new society, right? So this is the challenge that I think we have for ourselves is to figure out how to take these tools and make them productive as opposed to just using the tools to manage, you know, sort of to defend our existing freedom to innovate. So I'll just close by coming back to Iceland. Again, the president mentioned that maybe there is a role for Iceland in this. I think there is. It's why I've been here as much as I have been over the last couple of years. Actually, the last year, as I think about it. The first time I ever came was for this event last year. And I've been back a number of times since, talking to a full range of people in the community here about the role Iceland could play. I realize that in saying there's a special opportunity for Iceland, there is a sort of, it reminds some people of, well, we thought that in the financial Look how that turned out. And so it's a very tricky thing to suggest that there's a special role. But I do think there is one. I think that there is a natural, for all of the reasons people have already talked about today, this is a naturally entrepreneurial society. There's a significant opportunity to build an IT-related business. You can reach a global market from this isolated community at the edge of the world. And I think there is, there's all the advantages of data centers and energy and everything else. So there is that, right? But it's also a homogeneous population with a tractable political process which could push the model for policymaking and regulation incrementally in a direction that could build a global brand for Iceland. It could say that Iceland is thinking about a a model of regulation that works with the internet as opposed to against the internet. That it's thinking about the way users'rights in their data exist in the cloud or in cyberspace. There's a lot of confusion about that in the US and in Western Europe, but there's an opportunity for Iceland to begin to define that. These are hard problems. They're not simple. There are some principles, I think, that could be established, but I think it will take some work for Iceland to define where they want to land on the spectrum. If you push the agenda too far out, then you end up looking like you're just trying to get, you know, the Internet's about. Libertarianism and sort of free stuff and there is no sort of economic development message. I don't think that's the answer. I think you want to push it in a direction that says there's a huge opportunity for innovation and economic development on this platform. Let's see what constraints we need to release in order to be able to unleash that economic development. It's going to be tricky politically in the United States. One of the things that's interesting is that This kind of policy, this net-friendly policy, isn't about left or right. I mean, there's a whole bunch of issues that I end up working with both the left and the right on in the United States. It's really about future and past. And I think the opportunity for the political process here in Iceland, like the process in the US, is for one of the parties to seize that vision of the future and say, we want to define that vision of the future. And I think what will happen is that they will end up bringing with them the young people, the people who grew up on the internet, who grew up inside of Facebook, who recognize the value of it, and that will be a very strong political base. But it will be tricky. So that's the thoughts that I wanted to share. That's it. Thank you.