00:32:48 [Brad Burnham]
So think about how that happened, right? You had a platform that enabled all of this innovation on top of it, but had the luxury of being able to sit there and look at the innovation that was taking place on top of it. You mentioned Facebook in a similar vein. And then deciding what they wanted to internalize. And over the years, everything got sucked down into either the office suite or the operating system. And so. That actually, again, paradoxically, was good for consumers. Why? Because it standardized the interfaces, it standardized the user experience, it made it more accessible to more people.

00:33:24 [SPEAKER_2]
Interoperability, like you have a Word doc, I have a Word perfect, we don't have to buy a third piece of software to translate it.

00:33:29 [Brad Burnham]
So it was good for consumers. It was bad for innovation. And so we're in a similar place right now at the applications layer of the web where you have these dominant players that are limiting innovation. So, personal experience, as you know, we were investors in Twitter and early on Twitter was an open API, remember? And so we had Tweety and TweetDeck and all those things. And so you have-Twitter didn't have its own iOS or Android app. Right. And so you have people building applications on top of an open database. But when Twitter figured out that, gosh, we need a business model and the business model is going to be advertising, so we have to control the way in which our content is being displayed, all of a sudden it didn't work, right? And so what did they do? They basically cut off all those value adders. So the reason trustlessness is important isn't about, you know, not trusting a state. It's about not trusting a platform. Got it. So you, you know, I think that if you believe, you know, there are no developers who are going to build on top of a closed platform today naively, right? They've seen it too many times.

00:34:44 [SPEAKER_2]
No, I mean, you also had this with Zynga and Pincus and watching what happened with him and Zuckerberg and they were friends or so, so he thought maybe, but they were. They knew each other well. He had negotiated the deals personally with Mark Zuckerberg to be on the platform.

00:34:57 [Brad Burnham]
Yes. It's an incredible luxury as a dominant platform to be able to watch the innovation that takes place on top of the platform and choose how and when you're going to incorporate that innovation into your revenue streams. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I just think that, I mean, that is the way capitalism works. I'm a capitalist. But I think that that creates the opportunity for the next turn of the wheel, the next wave of innovation. And I think that I have a great deal of faith in entrepreneurs and in engineers and innovators generally. And I think they will go to, at this point, having watched this movie too many times. They're going to go to a platform that they know can't be evil.

00:35:46 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah. They're not going to buy into building for Facebook for the seventh time and then have Zuckerberg pull the ball away like Lucy with Charlie Brown and wind up on your back again. Like now my understanding is, Facebook wants to get developers to start doing things with them again. And it's like, really? Again, you're going to try to, I mean, fool me once, fool me twice, fool me for the 17th time. Like you've screwed every business partner you ever had, internally and externally at Facebook. And now you think people are going to buy in? No. So it's that distributed. Nobody owns it. We're all going to vote based on our hash power, whatever.

00:36:22 [Brad Burnham]
There's going to be a lot of experimentation on how these things are governed, and even whether they need to be governed. There's a governance mechanism called forking that works, but it's painful and expensive. There's a lot of people working on much more elegant governance mechanisms. I think the ideal implementation of a blockchain is going to be one where governance is actually relatively limited. People can trust it because the architecture is trustable.

00:36:51 [SPEAKER_2]
It is one thing about the Bitcoin protocol that we have to sort of tip our hats to is that we're sitting here in year 10 or whatever it is, and it's still rocking and solid. And yeah, sure, it went to 19 and back down to $3,000. Putting that aside, it hasn't been hacked yet.

00:37:08 [Brad Burnham]
It's obviously been manipulated, but it hasn't been hacked. The price movement. You know, that's certainly not Bitcoin's fault. No. Right. It hasn't been hacked. It's a really impressive architecture. It's a really impressive design. I wouldn't describe it as an impressive technology. The technology was, you know, I mean. With six different components put together. Yeah. You know, I was just thinking about what is the quote about artists that, you know.

00:37:38 [SPEAKER_2]
Immature poets steal. Immature poets copy.

00:37:41 [Brad Burnham]
Mature poets steal. Right. Great artists steal. Great artists steal. So Satoshi actually did steal a lot of technology. So from various cryptographic work that was going on. But put it together in this unique way that demonstrated that you could create a pixel, you could create, not a pixel, you could create a digital bit that was provably unique. And that was the huge innovation because once you have a bit that's provably unique, you can make it programmable, you can start to build all of the things that we've started to see building around it. And that was a huge innovation.

00:38:24 [SPEAKER_2]
When you saw these ICOs happening, I guess this would be two years ago now, They started to get pretty violent and there was this whole, I guess, meme or theory going around. It's the end of the venture business. Founders are going to be able to raise $100 million on a white paper. And since that time, 2,000 ICOs, like 80% have gone dark. Nobody knows where the money is. The SEC is rounding people up. I know you've worked with the SEC a bit on crypto. What did you think when those ICOs were going on about their viability? And what do you think about where they wound up? And then we'll get into where they're going. Take yourself back into that moment in time when that VC's over.

00:39:11 [Brad Burnham]
I mean, you're asking me. Bottom line is that it's really hard for me to reflect on what I thought exactly at that moment because I've been able to watch how the movie played out. So I'll just tell you that. I think there was a lot of naive enthusiasm about the architecture. Joe Ito used to say that the internet is a belief system. And we started to see people losing faith in that belief system. And then there was this new idea that all of a sudden, you know, channeled a lot of that energy and a lot of, you know, sophisticated developers and others who had built on top of platforms and been screwed said, oh, wait a minute, there's another way that we can think about this. And there's a, you know, so there's a lot of enthusiasm around it. It also kind of self-inflated in the sense that a lot of people who bought Bitcoin early had paper gains, actually real gains, because it was tradable in and out. And they wanted to diversify. And so that fueled a lot of that money – They had the monopoly money. They were just recirculating it. Never landed. And so I think there's a lot of things that inflated that bubble. But it's, you know, I think people lost sight of the fact that these are not only very early stage companies, it's a very early stage technology. So that, you know, that you had very small teams with very little experience of actually building distributed systems, raising money at highly inflated prices when the deployment platform wasn't even capable of supporting them or supporting them at scale.

00:41:06 [SPEAKER_2]
Almost like the 1999 IPOs, 1998, 1999, 2000 IPOs happened in 1993 and 1994 when we were talking about the Information Superhighway. Bingo. Just listening to you talk about it.

00:41:18 [Brad Burnham]
And now you end up with a bunch of companies that have a hundred million dollars.

00:41:23 [SPEAKER_2]
And there's no web.

00:41:25 [Brad Burnham]
There's no browser yet. Right. And then what? So, you know, you actually see some of these well-endowed crypto projects actually investing in the infrastructure, actually in a venture style, making investments in the infrastructure, which I think is great. But, yeah. So is there a role for venture capitalists? We spend a lot of time thinking about how we can be helpful to the companies that we work with. And a lot of it is just pattern recognition and networks and connecting people with ideas or people or whatever. And they still need that, even if the money seems to be free. But by the way, I don't think the money is still free.

00:42:09 [SPEAKER_2]
No. No, this was like some mirage. I tried to explain this to some founders who were lamenting like that they didn't get the $100 million Masayoshi-san check or they didn't get the $200 million ICO. And I said, you know, in life you can see weird behaviors happen that are the outliers. And then you think that the outlier is something that you're entitled to. That would be like me waking up and being like, I bought a lottery ticket and I didn't win. But I know somebody who won the lottery. You have to understand, fundamentally, you're still in a lottery. Just because some big, huge whale like Masayoshi-san comes in and puts $100 million into a couple of companies doesn't mean that that's the new standard. He's doing something different that hasn't been done before. What do you think of that impact? I know you guys have been in business with Masayoshi-san before. As a matter of fact, I knew Masa when Fred was investing with SoftBank. That was a long time ago.

00:43:10 [Brad Burnham]
I'm not sure we've done a deal at Unisquare Ventures. Well, yeah. So, okay. So, I mean, if you came in late, a lot of people came in late to deals that we were in that we weren't really involved with. But anyway, so I think it's going to, you know, I think we're in a period of consolidation. I think there have been There have been some good investment opportunities. My partner Albert really figured out that as we started consolidating, there was going to be a need for small companies to have infrastructure that allowed them to compete more effectively with larger companies. So things like MongoDB and Twilio were things that he led, which I would have missed because I wasn't thinking in terms of, you know.how the consolidation was going to affect, you know, the applications layer. And then I think, you know, we have a new partner, Rebecca, who's done a really good job of getting us into some of the sort of new full stack e-commerce services that I think, you know, are going to do well for some time. But I think that the consolidation is going to continue. And I think that one of the embarrassing things about the way the venture capital business works is that it often, there's a pool of capital that comes into the market as a result of extraordinary returns. There were extraordinary returns in the sort of Web 2.0 era when some of those very large networks were getting liquidity, Facebook and Twitter and others. And the money came in. The money went to work, and it kind of went to work after the puck had moved on. And I think that, you know, you're seeing people bid up prices for consumer services that are in very competitive markets where there's a dominant incumbent. And I think that's going to be a tough one to make a living. And I think even e-commerce sites, eventually we're going to start to see, you know, players like Amazon, you know, being more and more aggressive in those markets is gonna make it tough to deliver a return. I mean, even if you think you're completely outside of Facebook's, what some friends might have called kill zone, if you think you're completely outside of Facebook's kill zone, I wouldn't be completely surprised to see them offer a financial services product, right? I mean, they have a They have a platform. They have a reach. They have the ability to deliver that product.

00:45:50 [SPEAKER_2]
I'm one of the early investors in Robinhood. Yeah. And Wealthfront. Oh, no. Right. What prevents them? Yeah. I mean, focus, I guess, would be what we typically would say, right? Like, do they have the focus to focus on this and make it happen? And sometimes they do. Sometimes they don't. Google Plus, they couldn't focus their way to success. Waymo, perhaps they will. Android, they did. Interesting question. What is Amazon's focus? Yeah, it seems like they have two, Amazon Prime and AWS. Because I would think Amazon Prime is kind of the catch-all for rabid consumers moving 90% of their purchasing to Amazon.

00:46:29 [Brad Burnham]
Right. Like becoming a primary purchasing option. If you think of Facebook's focus as social networking or news or invitations or something, yeah, financial services would be out of focus. Connecting people, yeah. If you think of Facebook's, uh, focus as connecting people or or connecting people with services being a switch as opposed to being a provider um of everything I don't see why it's you know necessarily out of focus yeah why wouldn't you add you know the ability to send Facebook dollars back and forth and zip zip zip all right when we get back and we finish up uh Union Square puts out its thesis, we're going to go over your thesis from April 2018 and how it's played out since and how you think it will shape up in 2019.

00:47:13 [SPEAKER_2]
We'll make it back on this week in startups. We've been using HubSpot here at Launch for a couple of years and we love it. It's incredible for marketing, you know that, but also my sales team, my sales team loves, loves it for CRM. It's fast, it's intuitive, it's robust, and they have a great program called HubSpot.for startups. This is a program that helps startups grow and scale faster and better. It's super cool. It includes a ridiculously steep discount on the HubSpot growth platform up to 90% off for startups in this education and programming and access to all HubSpot integrations at a startup-friendly cost. Thousands of startups are already using HubSpot for sales, marketing, and services. And you're going to learn from amazing mentors associated with HubSpot for startups. If you want to take advantage of HubSpot for startups, head to HubSpot.com. Com slash startups slash twist and read more. That URL again, HubSpot.com, H-U-B-S-P-O-T, HubSpot.com slash startups slash twist. If you use the twist link, you will be entered into a drawing for a free ticket to HubSpot's 20,000-person live event called Inbound, which is happening September 3rd through 6th in Boston. What a great deal. So go to, again, HubSpot.com slash startup slash twist. We use HubSpot. We love it. It's incredible software. It's going to help your company grow, and that's what it's all about. Okay, let's get back to this amazing podcast. Welcome back to This Week in Startups. I'm your host, Jason Calacanis. My guest today, none other, Brad Burnham from Union Square Ventures, founded in 2003 with my good friend Fred Wilson. And what an amazing run. Etsy, Tumblr, Foursquare, Stripe. Don't see Kickstarter on this list. Hmm, what's going on in my research department? You guys are also in Kickstarter. Yes, we are. That's kind of a quixotic one. They never want to IPO. They want to run the business forever. They have a lower margin business. They're pretty generous, only charge 5%.Can you ever get your return on that? Or is it gonna be dividends if they refuse to go public forever?

00:49:33 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, I think that's the answer that they will divide out a return for us and And I think it's actually, you mentioned earlier when we were talking about crypto, is crypto a good place for venture capitalists? And there's a bunch of the same pressures in the crypto world. So I think of Kickstarter as having trained us to work with entrepreneurs that want to be in it for the long run, want to be relatively careful about the rents that they extract out of their network, and want to create sort of sustainable value over time. I don't think of it as their problem to figure out how to deliver a return on that. I think that's our problem.

00:50:16 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, the rake is, I know Bill Gurley talks about this a lot, like if you take too much rake, you could see what happened today. I think Discord, that gaming chat service, is going to deliver games, but they're going to deliver it 90-10, 90% of the revenue to the publisher. So anybody else who's taking 30% in their app store, okay, now maybe the new VIG is 10%.So I think the way they say that in the business is, your margin is my opportunity. How do your LPs feel about that, though, in a Kickstarter? How do you explain that to them when they're like, 'You got Kickstarter, it's done like $3 billion, oh my God, it's gone through that platform, and when are we going to get our billion? Because that is part of what you do, right? You're like a proxy for the LPs and the founders.

00:51:03 [Brad Burnham]
Absolutely. Innovation always, by definition, finds efficiencies and allows for the delivery of a service at lower prices. And so I think the business of venture capital is cannibalizing itself. And I think that our job is to do it early and to be on the front end of that as opposed to the back end of that. And if we're on the front end of that, I think we can deliver very attractive returns as we improve the efficiency in various markets.

00:51:41 [SPEAKER_2]
You guys keep to the $300, $400 million fund size? We do. Why? Actually smaller. $250, yeah.

00:51:51 [Brad Burnham]
Most of our funds are in the $150, high end is sort of $200. And we have We have a paired fund model now where we've raised a core fund and an opportunity fund at the same time. And as opposed to raising one larger fund, I think it's a better model in terms of being sort of respectful of our LP's money because we charge lower fees on the opportunity fund. We expect. You know, lower, we expect more stable returns, but lower returns in the opportunity fund. And we charge lower fees on that. And we expect outsized returns on the core fund. And we charge traditional fees on that.

00:52:36 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah. What do you think of companies staying private for so long? Obviously, it's been a polarizing debate amongst our community.

00:52:48 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah.

00:52:50 [SPEAKER_2]
Is it good hygiene or bad hygiene?

00:52:55 [Brad Burnham]
You know, put that in the context of crypto. They don't stay private very long at all in crypto. Buy as many coins as you like now. Pre-buy them. Pre-sell. Anyway, I think that. I like being a minority investor. I like not being a control investor. I like knowing that we're not successful unless the team's successful. And I don't think it's our call about whether they stay private or go public. And I think that there will be creative ways to get liquid. And there's always a secondary market. USV have almost always, in some of our more successful companies, sold on the way up in the private markets prior to an IPO. And we left some money on the table, but it felt responsible and very straightforward. I think that's great.

00:53:56 [SPEAKER_2]
So just pair your position 10%, 20% each time you get that opportunity? Yep, about that. Yeah. That seems wise.

00:54:04 [Brad Burnham]
You know, it's worked. You could argue that you could look at places where we left money on the table and you could argue that we didn't. The other thing we do pretty much as a rule is when a company does get liquid, when it traditionally goes public, we'll get off the board and we'll sell, not sell, we'll return the shares to the LPs. It's up to them what to do. It's up to them what to do. A lot of, you know, there is, you know, if you look at the more successful, particularly in some of the applications layer sort of network effect, winner takes most opportunities. That was not a great financial move for us. It was a good financial move for the LPs because they were able to ride that stock if they chose to. But so a lot of firms will hang on to stock for longer. We think of it as our job to really work with the entrepreneurs early. And there's a point at which we are of a lot less value to them and it feels like that's a good time for us to step aside.

00:55:15 [SPEAKER_2]
What do you think of secondary transactions with founders? Is there a moment in time that's too early for them to be doing that? I think of that secret app. I don't think you guys were investors in that, but they took out some like. They basically held the VCs who wanted to invest in that Series A or Series B hostage and were like, unless we get like three million each, we're not doing it with you. And I think Redpoint was the one who basically was like, okay, fine. We really want to do this deal. We'll give you each two or three million bucks. And these schmucks showed up with like Ferraris the next week at their office. And people were like, 'Hey, dummies, like what message does that send to your team that you just drove up in a freaking Ferrari and, you know, with the money before we're even profitable?

00:55:54 [Brad Burnham]
Not a great look. So it's happening a lot more. Obviously, as companies wait longer to go public, it's going to continue to happen. I think you could be ideological about it either way. And I think that'd probably be a mistake. I remember, you know. Working with one of uh a really neat company that we worked with early on, you'll remember Delicious, of course Josh and um loved it so you know that was a situation where it was at that time and gosh it must have been in the 2007-8 time it was 2006 because we had So Weblogs Inc I think at the same time it was Flickr.

00:56:39 [SPEAKER_2]
And Delicious went to Yahoo, and we went to AOL. And I think Flickr got $25 million, Delicious got 20 or 25. And we got 25 and then sold the software for $5. And people thought those companies were so dumb for buying six-person companies for $30 million. They were like, 'Yahoo is so dumb.'They bought Flickr for $25 million.

00:56:59 [Brad Burnham]
Well, I think Delicious could have had a longer run. I think it's tough to build a company like that inside a company like Yahoo.'But, you know, that was really early in this whole conversation about secondaries. And, you know, Fred and I had both been raised in a world where you didn’t do that. And so we didn’t even think about it at the time. But Josh Schachter was in a position where, you know, that was a meaningful, life-changing amount of money to him.

00:57:29 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, solo founder owns 60, 70%.

00:57:31 [Brad Burnham]
Right. So it was a big deal. It was a big deal for him. And there was, and so. And we're minority investors. And if you have an entrepreneur that really wants to sell or feels like they need to sell, they’re not fungible. You can’t just replace them. Known what we know now, and had we had the experience of watching responsible secondaries happening, we would have offered a secondary and said, 'Hey, let's take the pressure off. Let's solve your near-term problems.'

00:58:09 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, here's $2 million, here's $4 million, buy your loft, pay down your student debt, whatever it is. It seems to be quite reasonable, $1, $2, $3 million, $4 million. When you start getting to $10 or $20 million, listen, when that kind of money comes into your bank account, you start looking at it. You start wondering what to do with it. You start talking to the money manager. You start thinking about planes. You start thinking about second homes. It's just a huge distraction.

00:58:32 [Brad Burnham]
Yep.

00:58:34 [SPEAKER_2]
It'll take you right off course.

00:58:37 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, so I think I'm not ideological about secondaries one way or the other, but I think there's a way to do them and there's a way not to do them.

00:58:42 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah. I'm wondering about the staying private for a long time. One of the things that was really instructive for me about the Uber experience was you know Travis was there were people who insisted on selling and Travis let some of them sell and told them 'don't sell, I don't think it's a good idea to sell at four billion and they sold and literally like six months later 10 billion dollar round and he told them but people just wanted that quick hit you know you get in at five million and you want to get out of four or five billion it seems pretty good except you could have added a zero. It's about the long game.

00:59:22 [Brad Burnham]
I think so. I mean, I think it'd be a really interesting question about where Uber ends up in the long game.

00:59:29 [SPEAKER_2]
Because of self-driving?

00:59:31 [Brad Burnham]
I would actually argue that the more fundamental transformation in the market is going to be more democratic platforms, skinnier platforms, platforms that are fueled by a cryptocurrency. And I think, you know, I don't know when that's going to happen. Obviously, Uber is facing competition. Uber is facing some margin pressure from other players. But if you think about it, you've got drivers and passengers and shareholders, and you're going to divide the pie between them. If you value the business at I don't know whether you want to use 70 or 50 or whatever number you want to use for Uber. And you think about anybody that comes in at that price is looking for a 3x maybe. And then look and think about the earnings that you'd have to produce in order to deliver a 3x. Shareholders are going to take a lot out of that pie. So this is the Bill Gurley comment about rake or rent or whatever. And I think that that's going to open them up to competition too, skinnier protocols that mediate the relationship between drivers and passengers without as much rent extraction and allow the creators and consumers of value uh I bet you there are i mean I heard people talk about it like in a white paper I've never seen it but the concept here would be And it could be for Airbnb as well if they're taking 10% or somebody's taking 20%.

01:00:58 [SPEAKER_2]
Hey, I'm going to create a cryptocurrency. You guys trade your, you know, whatever, you know, air coins or whatever they get called or Uber coins, you know, ride sharing coins. And we own 10% of the coins. You guys do what you want with the rest. And that's it. Or you're taking 1%.

01:01:16 [Brad Burnham]
So what's really cool about the model is that the drivers in this example would have a token or a currency in their cash register and the passengers would have it in their wallet. And so in order to participate in the market, you'd have to own some of this currency. And as more and more people came into the market, the creators of value, the creators and consumers of that value would actually participate in the appreciation. That doesn't happen in a shareholder-driven model.

01:01:46 [SPEAKER_2]
Something we all wanted to do. I remember talking early on to the team at Uber, and I know the Airbnb team looked at this, and eBay team looked at it back in the day, which was giving stock.

01:01:55 [Brad Burnham]
Well, Boston Brewery, remember that? Oh, were they giving stock to them? No, Boston Brewery. Yeah, well, they did that, but they also gave it to their customers, right? Right. They put, you know, basically applications in six packs.

01:02:07 [SPEAKER_2]
Oh, wow. So brilliant. Yeah. That was some Harvard MBA, right? I don't know. Some Harvard MBA is like, I got an idea. Let's put stock certificates. Anyway. Inside of a six pack. All right, listen. Trusted brands that broaden access to knowledge, capital, and well-being by leveraging networked platforms and protocols. That's a lot of words, but I actually understand it. Congratulations. How many people worked on that? You got four partners there? Five partners there? We have five partners now. Yeah. Trusted brands. We get that. Broaden access. Get more people involved. Opening the pie. To knowledge, okay, education, information, okay, got it. Twitter, Tumblr, all those are education. Capital, okay, that's interesting. Finance, Bitcoin, all that kind of good stuff. And well-being. Whoa, what's that about well-being? All of a sudden you guys care about well-being? Go explain. We never used to care about well-being. Yeah, what's going on?

01:03:00 [Brad Burnham]
Running capitalists are caring about well-being? So I think one of the least efficient markets on the planet is healthcare. Concur. Why? So look, I first of all have to say that I am not the healthcare person in the partnership. I think Andy's done most of that work. Rebecca's done some of that work. But I think that the basic idea is if you look at the way in which as more and more people got comfortable transacting online, and as a generation that grew up on the internet came of age and started becoming major purchasers of services, they kind of expected that consumer experience; they're not getting that consumer experience out of healthcare. Call us on the phone, we'll give you an appointment in three weeks. Right. And so I think the theory is that, you know, if you think about the way in which these e-commerce sites have simplified for huge parts of the population, the purchase of everything from razors to dresses; We haven't seen that in healthcare yet. Now, healthcare is a regulated marketplace. It's a much tougher marketplace to crack. There's a lot of entrenched interest. So the question is, how do you work around the edges? How do you find the pieces that lend themselves well to being delivered to a phone? And, you know, we're in a couple of pretty neat projects there. Nurex is one. Modern Fertility.

01:04:35 [SPEAKER_2]
We have one, Calm.com, a meditation app that just, like, consumers actually paying for and buying their own services and taking control over it. I agree with your thesis that this next generation is going to want to take out their phone and be like, 'Give me the same experience Uber and Lyft give me.'I want a doctor's appointment. How soon? At what cost? Okay, there's surge pricing on this day. When is there not surge pricing? When can I get a discount to come in? Just like getting a dentist appointment. Like there's a whole dental startup here. I forgot the name of it. But their whole concept is pivoted around like you don't have to wait. You're going to come and your appointment's going to be on that time and you can book this week, not December for February. And obviously through networks, platforms, and protocols, networks we get, platforms we get. Protocols, kind of old school.

01:05:29 [Brad Burnham]
Not really. No, protocols is code for crypto. It's not meant to be code, but that's what we're talking about.

01:05:35 [SPEAKER_2]
So what's old is new.

01:05:36 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah. And that's where I'm spending all my time.

01:05:40 [SPEAKER_2]
Protocols.

01:05:40 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah. How to get a protocol up and running and adopted. Yeah. And it's been fascinating because, you know, we talked a little bit earlier about ICOs. We talked about the weird situation where you have very early stage companies with lots of money. Also, you know, there are so many unusual situations that you find yourself in. You're working with these young teams. Traditionally, if a young team doesn't find traction, they eventually run out of money and you as an investor, you have the leverage to change something. You can talk through, change focus, change team members, change whatever. You have a young company not getting traction that has a big bank account. And you're a participant in that investment, very little leverage. And so it's been figuring out how to navigate as an investor this space has been really fun.

01:06:45 [SPEAKER_2]
It is really interesting because it seems like some investors, WordPress comes to mind, people have been able to navigate open source plus Red Hat comes to mind. A company that embraces open source fully at the core and has a monetization plan.

01:07:01 [Brad Burnham]
Can you think of one other than the Red Hat model? A monetization plan for open source that's different than providing services and packages on top of an open source stack?

01:07:12 [SPEAKER_2]
I mean, it's almost always been services, which is a terrible business to be in, generally speaking. And then you have the dot-com version of it, the hosted version, where you can deploy it without any pain or suffering. Which is what WordPress does, right? You have WordPress.org. If you want to go do it, you can. You go here and then, yeah. So I don't have one.

01:07:30 [Brad Burnham]
Right. So I think crypto is that layer. Crypto opens up a whole lot more flexibility in terms of the way you create incentives around the protocol. And I think we're very early. Get a couple of Satoshis. I think it'll take a long time before we see the real fruits of that. But I've got a lot of conviction? Conviction.

01:07:56 [SPEAKER_2]
Even more than intuition. Conviction.

01:07:59 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah. I'm in the intuition phase. I'm not up to conviction yet. Well, so one way to arrive at conviction is to think about the alternatives. So we started this conversation talking about market power, dominant players, consolidation, and the impact that's having on innovation and the opportunity for investment. I don't think that's a pretty picture. This is why it's gotten religious. Yeah. You know, to use a term.

01:08:33 [SPEAKER_2]
It's why people have conviction beyond financial, you know. Financial reward right, the people who are in it this is what I found so compelling about the original Bitcoin people when I had them on in 2009-2010 on this podcast-that they were just thinking not like founders I had met in other places they were thinking about you know what's the ramification of somebody in Venezuela who has to deal with a you know currency being devalued, like how do you get your money out of China if you're a dissident, you know? I was like, 'I'm sorry, what are we talking about here?'Or how do you deal with central banks that are printing more money? And I'm like, 'are they printing more money?'I guess they are. Okay. Yeah. This is like a really interesting mental exercise.

01:09:16 [Brad Burnham]
I think we're a long way away from seeing those impacts, but we're not nearly that far away from seeing. You know, the opportunity to invest time and energy as a developer in creating value on top of a platform that can't be evil, that can't ultimately take your legs out from under you. I think that's where a lot of people are working today.

01:09:41 [SPEAKER_2]
Love it. Alright. Listen, you're smart, Brad. Sitting with you, it's got my brain like. In overdrive right now. I'm just like, Oh God, I'm on like eight thread. I'm processing eight threads concurrently right now. My multiprocessor is like, uh, and this was a great thing about having a great conversation on a podcast. I was explaining this to somebody the other day. I was like, 'It's like,'Oh my God, you do a lot of podcasts. I'm like a hundred a year. I was like, 'You know,'every time I get out of that podcast, I have 50 more ideas. I like racing to get my Moleskine. I'm racing to write things down, like all the different ideas. And today, uh, this was a highlight for my week so I really appreciate you doing it, uh, if you have a great company protocols if you match the, uh, thesis best way to get in front of any venture capitalists in my experience is to go through one of their, uh, previous investments or email them and have a product you ever like get an email and then meet with the person.

01:10:37 [Brad Burnham]
Rarely, rarely these days. I think that's a tough way. And I'll tell you, the single worst thing to do is email all five of us at the same time. Yeah, CC is always great. Everybody looks at each other and goes, 'I don't know, who's going to answer this?'So much better to figure out what the firm's doing and then within the firm what the partners are doing and then make sure you know which partner is working on that thing. And then, as you say, if you can find a warm introduction from an entrepreneur that they worked with before, that's a much better way in.

01:11:09 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, for sure. I still respond to the emails coming in.

01:11:13 [Brad Burnham]
Good for you.

01:11:13 [SPEAKER_2]
Well, I have an accelerator, so we actually have a vehicle for it. But when you're, I mean, at the level you're at, I mean, the email box must be going bonkers.

01:11:23 [Brad Burnham]
But, you know, if I see an email that's, you know, we've had this conversation about what my interest is. If somebody, you know, zeroes in on, what Tim Berners-Lee calls the re-decentralization of the web and has a credible mechanism for participating in that, then I'll probably respond to that.

01:11:43 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah. All right. We'll see you all next time. Thanks a lot, Brad. We'll see you all next time on This Week in Startups. Bye-bye.