00:00:00 [SPEAKER_2]
I'm really excited to be here in this discussion and I just say this right away, so I'm here to learn, right? I'm definitely not the blockchain expert, I'm not an insider like all of you in this discussion, but I, I don't know, read a bit about it and talked with a lot of people about it, but that doesn't make me an expert. So I don't know, I can frame this a little bit, maybe from the discussions that have been going on that I was a part of around blockchain, and then can introduce you a little bit, and then we can just jump in and I totally step back. So on the one hand, when I talk to people in the community, I maybe come forward, whoever steps in, so that we have a circle of love here. There is this great excitement, right? Not just in platform cooperativism, but just, I mean, all across the, I think, development community. There's a huge excitement about the possibilities of blockchain. On the other hand, there have also been some critiques or hesitations around the question of really shifting trust from institutions and organizations like unions to what seems to be like an opaque algorithm. So that's why I was really excited this summer when I came across Gregory's work and Archane's work to learn about this, you know, the work around rchain.coop and the way they vote on the algorithm, right? Like one vote on the algorithm which is never heard of. And I thought, wow, that really changes this discussion around the blockchain because suddenly this is really not locked away black box algorithm anymore, but really becomes much more in the spirit of a co-op. So that was very interesting to me. Then I was sitting down with Brad, not so far from here, in his office near Union Square, where when I sat down, he said, Trevor, I hate the sharing economy just like you do, which I stood by. But for him, it's a really interesting project and investment in the blockchain area around portable worker identity as a way to counter the the market failure of the sharing economy. So like a very involved project. I should also say that Yaso should sit here. So we really were very invested on having a very gender-balanced blockchain panel. But Yaso hurt her foot. So she couldn't make it. Yeah, so I don't know, like you, I know; I'm not, haven't really sat down with you. So maybe actually, you guys want to introduce your work and just really briefly yourselves.

00:03:36 [SPEAKER_3]
And it was mostly focused around how do you use smart contracts instead of capital to organize a group of people towards a common cause? That was also when I was also doing research and joining the co-op movement, so this has been part of what I've been thinking about for a long time, and right now I'm super interested in sort of seeing how things have evolved since having that first conversation here a few years ago and where things are at.

00:04:05 [SPEAKER_4]
So Jamie Burke, founder of Outlier Ventures; Founder of Outlier Ventures, which was Europe's first dedicated fund to blockchain four years ago. And actually, the thing that most interested me in blockchain, kind of got me into the space was really looking at how these new decentralized web technologies could be applied to the sharing economy. So intellectually, that was the thing that made it all click. And so since then, I'm kind of convinced that a cooperative-like governance model layer is the native governance layer for Web3 because of its decentralized nature. Um, and the ability to tokenize and fractionalize value in that system so, um, the idea that uh, it's more inclusive, more people can participate in it. I mean, it doesn't mean um, that there isn't a huge concentration of wealth in for example bitcoin as kind of mirrors um, uh, any other capital market almost, but um, uh, but nevertheless, you know, I think this is the beginning of the journey um and we can learn a lot from things like Bitcoin and Ethereum in terms of their crypto-economic design. We can design them better to function as more sustainable economies, digital economies. And my hope is that that then translates to the wider world and the wider economy.

00:05:44 [SPEAKER_2]
So maybe we can start, I think you started already, but maybe you can introduce your projects or the things that you're working on, like just initially starting off like that and then we can sort of dive in and maybe the first section you can interact with each other before we then open it up. I'm sure there are many people who have a lot of questions about the blockchain. Okay.

00:06:08 [SPEAKER_1]
Awesome. Well, first of all, thank you for organizing this and for inviting us down to speak about this. And thanks to everyone here for giving up your Saturday afternoon to come and hear stuff about blockchain. Can you-is that better? Oh, okay. I'm just going to do that. How's that? Better? Okay. Then I can drop it later. OK, so just some quick facts about our chain. So our chain has over 300 members. Is that better? OK, OK. So our chain has over 300 members. We were just founded in January of this year. And the membership has capitalized the co-op to the tune of about $10 million. And then, in addition to our existing cryptocurrency, which through their activities has made that currency also worth a substantial sum. So the co-op itself is now capitalized to about $20 million in less than a year. And what we're all about. The reason I formed our chain as a co-op and the founders formed it as a co-op is because it finally sunk into my bones the inextricable relationship between governance and the cryptocurrency technologies. Basically, you can't separate them. And so I became acutely aware that I had to get the governance model at least on the right path, if not right. And co-op seemed like the right thing. And this goes back to my personal history. I'll just share that back when I was a teenager, I was working in a co-op in West Virginia on a monthly basis to help keep our grocery bills down. And then I went to Oberlin College, which has an extremely large cooperative movement. So I was in Harkness Co-op, where we made all our own tofu and all our own granola and everything else. And so I had a lot of experience. And in Seattle, where I live now, I shop at REI and at PCC. And so it made a lot of sense to me that the co-op was directionally correct. I don't think that necessarily one member, one vote is going to be the right model always, all the time. And what I think we have to do is we have to get to an understanding of fluidity, agility, and living structure. But I think co-op is on that path. And so I'm going to just leave that out there as kind of tantalizing nuggets. There's a lot more that I could say, but I want to make sure that I hear more about what you're doing.

00:09:10 [Brad Burnham]
So I'm the capitalist in the room. I am a venture capitalist. I work for Union Square Ventures here in New York. I'm somebody who believes in markets, but I also believe that markets fail. And I think that there's a number of interesting failures in the sharing economy that have mostly to do with equity as the way those things have been capitalized. And I think blockchain-based crypto tokens present an opportunity to capitalize networks in a brand new way. And I really look forward to this conversation with people who've been thinking about this for a while. Because I think it's true that that the genius of Satoshi's original paper that described the architecture of Bitcoin was it allowed for the possibility for that network to be bootstrapped without external capital by the participants in the network. And then over time, because of the technology, the degree to which the technology became more and more sophisticated and more and more expensive, it began to migrate to these professional operations which now dominate the mining operations for Bitcoin. Bitcoin. And so the really interesting and exciting discussion that I think we can have today is how do you construct a network that can bootstrap its own capitalization from its members and still not end up in some kind of concentration? And I think crypto tokens and the protocols that underlie those give us the possibility of doing it, but we haven't seen it done yet.

00:10:49 [SPEAKER_4]
So I'm also a recovering capitalist. And I also believe in markets. And I think to kind of pick up on what you were just saying earlier, when you were referring to my model that it might not be the right one, but it's on the right path. And I think that's a really important point of focus because a lot of the focus goes on the technology. And actually, blockchain like technology decentralized web technology really is a socio-economic political innovation. And what's most exciting about that is that whilst the technology is open source, It enables for mass experimentation and so it's not just experimentation with technology, its governance model structures, so It's highly unlikely that we found the optimal model now, and maybe there is no single model. But I'm really confident, if you think of the brain trust that the blockchain community has, and now kind of tapping into other communities, we've got some of the brightest people in the world focused upon experimenting in this space. And that experiment will be open and visible, and we can all learn from it. And so that's the most exciting thing for me is that we're going to see this kind of Cambrian explosion of innovation in governance, in building digital economies. And we're going to be able to quantify whether they work or not, or to what extent that they work.

00:12:28 [SPEAKER_3]
So, that's what kind of excites me the most, thanks, um I guess for me like I started thinking about blockchain and started thinking that I like markets also but I thought that the way that markets were optimizing were leading to deforestation like leading to inequality. And so, to me, it seemed that why can't we make markets optimized to deal with those problems? And then I started thinking about if you were going to do that with a blockchain structure and not allow for too few people to have control, then you centralize the data with each of the users. And so that led me to getting really interested in the idea of a digital identity, not so much from the perspective of identifying people and giving them access to the current economy, but rather empowering them to create a new type of economy. And what has become pretty apparent to me is that, and I maybe didn't even feel this way when I first started on this. Is that I'm less interested in doing a technical design of a system without the people that are actually using the system, especially when we're talking about something so complicated like reforming markets or changing markets or new markets. And I've been more interested lately in building a community of people that want to exchange in this way and developing the tools that make the most sense for those problems, given what we know about the failures of market design today. And I kind of was much more deep into thinking about new blockchain protocols and cryptographic proofs and things like that earlier on in my career. And now I'm kind of backing away from that and focusing more on what would be a really simple way to connect people around something that blockchain enables you to do. And so for me, that's been. It's all about peer-to-peer trade. It's all about removing the middleman. It's all about democracy. So, I'm actually more interested in what a simple traditional web technology platform could do to connect a group of people that wanted to barter and trade directly without money being the means of the trade, rather coming up to contracts and agreements between themselves. So, that's what I'm doing and learning how to code as I'm building that. And I think What I'm interested in most long term will be the algorithms that start to connect people and start to think about how do we connect people in a way that doesn't continue to lead to inequality and climate change.

00:15:22 [Brad Burnham]
Can I ask the group here for their experience, particularly, I guess, Lucius, if you've been running a cooperative? Blockchain-based cooperative, the thing that always seems to me to be the hardest thing to architect is, as you say, the governance, right? And so how do you balance an efficient operation with a very open and democratic governance process. I love the Oscar Wilde line that he would have been a socialist, except they have all their meetings in the evenings. And how do you avoid engaging people on a daily basis in the minutia of operating a network? How do you get the network to essentially operate itself, but empower the participants in the network to weigh in when it matters?

00:16:21 [SPEAKER_1]
First of all, I love those questions. And I think they're the kinds of questions that I have to keep alive. They're not necessarily questions that we have a one-time fits-all answer there. Hopefully, I can get, eventually by the end of this, I'll figure out where to hold the mic. But one of the things that we've adopted are some principles. So one principle is radical transparency. What enabled us to build the trust within the community was that those stakeholders who really felt passionate and really wanted to work on this on a daily basis, we had to communicate. So once a week, we held our communications out in the open on YouTube. And that's the RChain Community Hangout. And every Wednesday at 11 AM Pacific time, a time chosen specifically so that our members all around the globe can at least tune in. And if they can't, well, they catch it on YouTube later. They see all of the stakeholders who are passionate saying, this is what I'm working on. And then they get to compare it to last week. So this is what Greg said last week. And this is what he's talking about next week. So we now have over two years of videos where people are able to track our trustworthiness. And that data point has created the kind of trust that allowed the membership to invest in the way that it did. So that's one thing. The other is the principle of radical inclusion. Everybody's welcome. And we value the difference of opinions. We value when people say, 'I don't like that.'That sucks. Okay, great. Tell me why it sucks. Right? And let's see if we can find a practical approach to making it better, making it improve. So those are some of the things, just two tiny principles, and they're not so tiny because they're really hard to do. But let me pass it on and see.

00:18:20 [SPEAKER_4]
Yeah, I mean, so I'm again, I'm not necessarily the one doing the stuff. But certainly, These typically that have proprietary IP that a real business that effectively want to open source for a number of reasons and but generally to gain network effect and stuff like that, so It's interesting watching a proprietary business that has revenues and customers and a product and stuff to risk Open source all of that and have to convince existing investors that that's in their financial interest and And make that journey because they're no longer a company actually, you know,And okay might be a foundation, and various different vehicles you can set up, but it's almost kind of doing away with the concept of the company, the corporation, because these are networks. Increasingly, they're then reliant on developers to opt into building out that network, and it's a very fluid market. So if the developers get bored, they just go and work somewhere else. If they fall out of love with the founders because the communication's not right. So it's a really fluid kind of environment, so we um, we work with Imperial College of London, right? Yes, and we work with the economics department, the mechanical science department to uh design these things bottom-up. One of the challenges is you can over-engineer them; um, you're thinking that you you can predict all the possible ways this thing might be taken, but um, fundamentally, you can build in fiscal policy, monetary policy. You can literally program these economies to function in a certain way. And their labor markets, their capital markets, they're all of these things. So it's a really interesting journey. And I think it's impossible to see how each one of these will kind of play out. But I come back to the point I made earlier. Big experiment. And I think it's really interesting to hear kind of your approach specifically coming back to a point you made earlier around concentration. I think the reality is that wealth or what have you, value concentrates in markets full stop. So I don't think we can, I think the objective is can we better distribute it? But the likelihood is when you're talking about blockchain, especially as it gets increasingly more complex, that value is going to concentrate in the hands of a technocracy. I mean, that's a technical elite. And one of the things that is really important for me as an investor in terms of what is the web that I want to invest in to help manifest is we see a Web3 stack. That will also include AI, you know, so blockchains and AI are perfect bedfellows. I mean, you couldn't have created a better innovation to power and further AI. So these, yeah, well, I mean, if I told you some of the things we're investing in, well, I will. You know, there's an ex-DeepMind team who, like most ex-DeepMind people, come from a gaming background, massively multiplayer gaming environments. And they're creating a protocol that self-organizes and enables what we call autonomous economic agents. Entirely synthetic, where they could be associated to a physical object. And they basically form markets. They trade with one another. And they're supposed to be having no meat. There's no people in it. So that's really exciting. But it's also, this is the reality we're moving into. Only a few people can understand it. So for me, the important thing is making sure there's a people layer in the Web3 stack. And so that's why I think it's really important that you guys are doing, that we're thinking about that now. Because if we don't do it now, it will be too late. And I'm talking a matter of years, single-digit years, where that reality will come into being.

00:23:10 [SPEAKER_3]
A note on the governance and participation front. And this is mostly from my experience being a part of real-world co-ops, not digital ones. But to get people to participate, you have to keep it small, so that their ownership means something and their ownership then has to mean something. So if the network got so huge that your ownership doesn't mean anything anymore, you're not going to participate as much. I mean, this is the classic problem of all worker-owned co-ops: how do you get it so it's not just one worker, one vote, but then someone is doing most of the work? Because oftentimes there are, there's founding members and it becomes unevenly distributed sometimes. And so then like something that we're doing in my yoga co-op is like, all right, we're taking committees. The person that's doing most of the work is then just assigning the work away. And you come up with the governance problems as they arise because people are incentivized to keep. The thing moving and rolling but another part of it is that it's different It's it's a whole different entity than a company and I think instead of just trying to like Figure out how to like make it work how companies work today I think we have to kind of allow it to be its own thing, and it is it's like a it's a slower moving thing, decisions do take longer to happen, but when they happen they're what most of the people want. And for me at least in terms of companies where I've worked in, where there's a huge inequity, not just like the equity of the company, but like in terms of who's working on what and who has power in the company, and I would say that the working environment of that, even if the company was being successful, the actual happiness level or the actual enjoyment and the actual effect of the work was much more limited than something where people felt like the balance of power was more even. So I think it is kind of about saying, these are the ideals that we want to embrace. And how do we keep matching the governance problems to continue on that path?

00:25:21 [SPEAKER_2]
Can I just see, I just want to see from the people in the audience, how many of you would say that you have a really good understanding of blockchain? Just to see who we are actually talking to here. So, I don't know, that's quite a lot of, that's two-thirds, okay, but there's still this other third, so we shouldn't forget, maybe, right? And also, say this again?

00:25:49 [Brad Burnham]
The test is that we hand you the mic and we ask you to explain it to everybody else.

00:25:55 [SPEAKER_1]
I'd love to just give it a go. Here's the way I'm currently telling this story to folks who are just getting into this space. At the heart of the blockchain is a family of algorithms that are essentially economically secured, distributed consensus protocols. So it's a way by which a group of agents can come to agreement about something without there being a leader, and that that agreement protocol is economically secured, right? So if you're, we can get into that later, what that exactly means, but that gives you a rough idea. Now, once

00:26:31 [SPEAKER_2]
- I'll take one of my students over here and see if she understood.

00:26:39 [SPEAKER_1]
So essentially what you're trying to do is to solve an age-old problem, right? You've got a bunch of people, and they need to agree to do on a particular task, or they need to agree that they've all got the same piece of information, right? And what you're looking for, without getting into the technical details of any one specific algorithm, because any of them could be quite complicated, is that there are now a family of these algorithms that are new and fresh. And what's different about them is that they favor availability over consistency, meaning that people can still go, they can still make forward progress before the entire network agrees on what the data is. Now, the next piece of the puzzle is if you just take it as stipulated that there exist these algorithms, right? So there are these algorithms that allow for these players to agree. On some piece of information, then what piece of information might you store? And the Bitcoin blockchain says, well, why don't we store a ledger? So, you know, Natasha has this many Bitcoin and Adam has that many Bitcoin. That's essentially what is stored. And that's an interesting and useful answer. Ethereum says we could do one better. Instead of storing the state of a ledger, why don't we store the state of a virtual machine? And then we can use the virtual machine to code up a ledger and a bunch of other things besides called smart contracts. So that's the next step. And then you can ask more refined questions like, what kind of virtual machine might you store? And so that's where Archane comes in and says, instead of storing a sequential machine, why don't you store a machine that could do things in parallel or concurrently? So hopefully that gives people a flavor what blockchains are and why it's not just about cryptocurrency. It's not just about even smart contracts. There's a lot more that's going on here that's closer to what you're talking about with respect to autonomous agents.

00:28:41 [SPEAKER_4]
I mean, I'd add something to it because I think it's easy to dismiss the cryptocurrency piece, especially. Probably with this audience, in its current manifestation, it's the worst kind of capitalism. So take that with a pinch of salt. I think, for me, one of the really important innovations that's enabled because of all the things that you just mentioned is this tokenization of value and that that value can then be fractionalized almost to an unlimited degree. And so there's a presentation yesterday that I thought was fantastic. I can't recall the guy's name, but I think he's here in the audience. And he was addressing how can cooperatism in its different forms, I think it's called an EWOC. He had a particular kind of right, particular kind of innovative financial construct that enabled cooperatives to tap into credit and use that credit to effectively acquire assets. And he said the missing ingredient for cooperatives to compete is access to credit. So if you think about what's possible with the cryptocurrency markets, we've got our own money printing machines, in effect, which is as innovative as the printing press, if you think about it. Print our own sources of money, and we can distribute that. We can lend it to projects that we believe in. And if that value is realized, we can participate proportionate to the risk that we've taken. And yes, it can be that if you've been able to buy into the system more, you're going to make more from it. Again, you kind of just have to accept that. But for me, this is huge because it could lead to the mutualization of everything. So.

00:30:46 [SPEAKER_2]
Well, I don't know, like in my conversation with Ethereum and I don't know, many blockchain proponents, I often found that it was sort of presented really as a belief system and that there was very little; I was sort of seen like the doubting Thomas, if you ask questions. And what I was looking for is always, like always with technology, I say, well, show me what it does now. Like, you know, not like Silicon Valley, which often it's like, well, you know, just, you know, let's all the flowers bloom. And then 20 years, the world will be the utopian, you know, techno-empowered paradise. But no, you know, like, what does your thing do right now? And for example, what does this crypto token buy a programmer right now? Can we pay a programmer right now? You know, so I think it's a fair question. I don't want to sort of jeopardize the discussion, but I think this is a fair comment. Give me that mic. Give me that mic right now.

00:31:49 [Brad Burnham]
The answer to the question, what does it do now, is very little. And I think we have to acknowledge that. Basically, what it does now is secure a distributed ledger to allow for a store of value. And the vast majority of what's being done is storing Bitcoin. And just across the globe, that's where most of the value is, that's where most of the activity is. And by the way, it's not that much activity because people are using it just to store value. And so they're not using it very much to transact. So that is what's being done today. And it is also fair to say it is a belief system. In the same way that the internet was a belief system. It was a belief in decentralized, emergent, bottom-up innovation. It was a belief in humans and individuals and individuals'Ability to be creative when given the opportunity to be creative. And yes, I think most of the people involved in it believe in those principles and believe in those values and believe that this mechanism will allow for the re-decentralization of the web, which is, you know, and yes. There are lots of, you know, legitimate critiques. I think, you know, one of the hardest, harshest critiques is that it is a Ponzi scheme. And when you talk about Bitcoin, you can make the argument that, yes, the very early participants in the network that encouraged other people to participate in the network, just like in any Ponzi scheme, did better than the ones that came in later. But what you can't do is say that that the ones that came in later aren't going to do great. We don't know the answer to that yet. You can say that with a Ponzi scheme. You know that at the end, when the music stops, there is no money. But it does appear these networks actually create value, and the people coming in later continue to participate in that value. So anyway, we could talk about the underlying technology. We can talk about why it's called a blockchain. We can talk about how it works. But I think the much more interesting conversation is why is it important? Why does it make sense today? And I'm going to bring it back to the AI question. Right now, we are living in a world of very rapid consolidation at the applications layer on the web. Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon are beginning to dominate the entire experience. And there's a reason for that. They have more data than anybody else. And because they have more data, they can create better user experiences than anybody else. And so it's a self-fulfilling prophecy or an accelerating circle. And it's a really scary prospect. Trevor said at the beginning that he's nervous about these algorithms being un-automated and inaccessible. Well, actually that's not true. Blockchains are open public data stores distributed across many many servers which are identical on all of those servers and anybody can latch onto that network, load you know add a server to that network download the entire chain and the entire history and have all of that history available. And then the protocols that run on that blockchain are completely open source in other words anybody can see them. Oh by the way anybody can take that original chain and the protocol and they can fork it and they can take it in a different direction and if the community follows them it evolves independently of the original chain so they are radically open. The reason that's so important is that when we move into Skynet and the world of artificial intelligence, we have two choices. Either we're going to see the development of artificial intelligence within the very proprietary data stores of Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, or we're going to see it in these open public data stores. And Ashley's actually got her finger on something really important, which is that Ultimately, the right answer is that each of us as individuals maintains an open public data store that allows us to invite algorithms from different providers to operate against that data store and gives us the authority to decide whether or not we like the output of that algorithm. And if we're not doing that, we're going to live in a very scary world where we are already seeing the implications of allowing a completely a proprietary data store and a completely proprietary set of algorithms to construct a news feed to create our perception of the world. And if we don't open that up, we are not going to be autonomous actors working against information that is, you know, that we're choosing and algorithms that we're choosing. So that's my whole.

00:36:51 [SPEAKER_4]
If I can.distill that because I think it's wonderful there's so many I'm trying to remember all the things I wanted to say to it and I think that is the existential threat that everybody should be thinking about and so what does this stuff do today well I actually think functionally you look at it and go well you can't really do that much but what it's done is it's mobilised people and capital around open source. And for me, that is huge. I mean, companies that would have otherwise been proprietary businesses, and by the way, 90% of them fail, which means most of the capital's lost, most of the IP's lost, the teams dissipate. A really inefficient way to innovate. And a really inefficient way to finance innovation. Here, because things are open source, generally, and they can be forked. That's why, for me, it's not a Ponzi scheme. Because the music never has to stop. So one experiment might fail. You can fork it. You can clone it. You can tweak it. And it can evolve. And by the way, when you do that, you can honor the ledger. So you can honor how value is distributed in that ledger or not. And so this is this has enabled an infrastructure for us to self-organize for whatever purpose and ensure that that value is distributed. And I kind of end that slight rant on the concept that we could have AI co-ops. Just saying. So, with our own data, we can own, and people are interested, I can talk about that a bit later, we are investing in companies that effectively are enabling AI co-ops.

00:38:43 [SPEAKER_3]
For me, two things that have to happen, like going off of if we're either going to go to this world that's dominated by the big data giants or we're not, which I kind of have to believe that we're not, or otherwise, what's the point of doing any of this? So then if we're not, then we have to have the right infrastructure for non-technical people to be participating in the governance. Like in the beginning, it can't happen later because then they weren't governing. And I think closing that gap, I really haven't worked with a lot of people, including myself, who are even thinking about how to do that or trying to put resources towards that or saying that that's fundamentally part of the new economy. So I think that is super important even as we're talking now and thinking about that a lot. And then the other thing would be I'm forgetting it now. So the identity part, right? So that's obviously super important that now we're centralizing our data with ourselves. But because that technical gap exists, and because there's not a lot of work being done around infrastructure to not close that, how do we ensure that the Identity protocol and like the interface and the way that most people access it, that those identity companies don't become the gatekeepers? And I, I would love to like believe that that wouldn't happen. But I've been in enough conversations with enough people working on stuff like this to see that it totally could happen. And I think that's the question that people need to be thinking about, and then also saying: So what would that identity governance layer be from the beginning before we get into this? I think what we realize with the Internet is like these things can't really be afterthoughts. They're not that effective. Yeah.

00:40:48 [SPEAKER_4]
Can I just plug something linked to that? Because we've just invested in a company called Evinim, that's open-sourced. Their identity solution is much more than identity solution to a foundation called Sovereign. And identity is complex, but identity basically means a series of verifiable claims. That's all identity is. And they allow for self-sovereignty in a decentralized structure. So it already exists. Maybe it's not the one. I think it is. But I think everything starts with that identity layer and self-sovereignty. From that base, you build everything up. Sorry.

00:41:22 [SPEAKER_1]
No, I think that's, in terms of what you can do today, that's a wonderful vision. I think you're absolutely right that identity is a very complex issue. And currently, Facebook is the de facto provider of online identity for more than half a billion people. So there is an existential threat. I have to bring this back, though, a little bit. Down to my 14-year-old son. Just the other day, we were standing in line going to Ethereum DevCon, and it was a long line, and so he wanted to pass the time. So, of course, he's talking to me about games. And he makes this astounding proposal. So, the proposal that he makes is that the metagame, the evolution of the game for baseball, basketball, football, is nothing like the metagame for esports. He's really into gaming. He loves the fact that Smash Brothers Melee is moving many, many times faster than you see in these older traditional games. And I was astounded by, first of all, the fact that a 14-year-old boy is making these kinds of observations. And I want to go back to play off of your Because what I've heard in this room is designing markets. What I've heard is reclaiming our notion of identity and our notion and redecentralizing the web. So the metagame here, you talked over, the word you used again and again and again was evolutionary, right? The metagame here is super, super fast. And the reason this is important, so now to bring it very, very concrete, is because if you look at it, there's not one way to coordinate each other. We have finance as one coordination technology. So markets are one clear, obvious coordination technology. Governance is another coordination technology. We've mentioned Facebook several times. Social media has emerged as yet a third form of coordination technology. None. These coordination technologies currently are moving fast enough for us to organize ourselves with respect to the consequences of how we have lived on planet Earth. Climate change is moving much faster than we think it is and we have to learn to coordinate ourselves very fast. So this exciting new technology is very practically showing up at a time when we need to up our metagame. And so that's why it's important not just to say what can it do for us now, but what can it do for us in relation to what's really the existential threat of the present moment.
