00:00:00 [SPEAKER_2]
It's been 20 or 22 years since you started USV. You've been investing for decades even before that. You've been doing this for a long time. Have had a lot of success. Jared posted a picture on Twitter a couple weeks ago of the two of you sitting back to back in two offices, two rooms in our office, with the caption, like, these two guys are always the first two here in the morning, which is true. People always often ask me, Why are you guys still here?

00:00:32 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, for me, venture capital is a little bit of a crutch. I'm very curious, but I'm a little lazy in terms of doing the work to learn something. Venture capital allows me to learn all these new things without having to do a lot of work. And then, of course, that's supercharged by all the founders who come in and explain a really deep domain. I can't get that anywhere else. I could potentially go get it at another venture firm, but I don't know why I would want to do that. I already have one, so why do I need to go get another one? But I can't give that up. I don't know where else to get that.

00:01:12 [Brad Burnham]
When you're sitting across the table from an entrepreneur who's been thinking deeply about a problem for a long time, you can go, no, no, no, I get that part. Tell me about this. I don't get this part. And so it just zeroes you right in on and it just accelerates your learning. And so same story. It's incredible privilege to be able to, you know, sit with smart people, talk about really interesting things. At my point in my career, as I'm trying to step back, I like to say 'smart people, cool things, don't take any to-dos', which is, you know, a great spot to be in.

00:01:48 [SPEAKER_1]
Yeah. It's really a wonderful thing to be able to, I mean, almost interrogate. And I realize when I'm with founders, I kind of do that. I realize that that's my UI, to interrogate a founder, that's, for me, the greatest way to learn. Like you said, Brad, it's a real privilege because they're only doing that because we can write them a check. They're not coming in to educate us out of the goodness of their hearts, but that's what we get from it.

00:02:13 [SPEAKER_2]
And it doesn't get old. It does not get old. Welcome back to the Slow Hunch podcast. And this week is a special one for me, joined by Fred Wilson and Brad Burnham, my partners at Union Square Ventures and the two that founded USV back in 2003. We, in this conversation, get into the history of their relationship, the history of the firm, the history of the technology arcs that they've been following for the last 40 or so years of their careers. And we weave together a lot of hunches and themes and threads of the internet, the tech ecosystem, New York City venture, platforms, protocols. AI and where it's all going today. So with that, I'm thrilled to welcome Fred and Brad, and I hope you enjoy it. Really excited to have you guys here today. You've both been a really big part of my life and each other's lives and have been central to the development of a lot of big things in the world in terms of internet technology and startup companies and venture investing. And I know that your story is not a one-idea story. It's an accumulation of many ideas and many decisions, and so I'm really excited to talk to you about that today. Maybe we could start by having you introduce yourselves and talk about, or just say, what you think the, if there's a slow hunch that you've been pursuing, you know, over the last 20 or 30 years, what is it? Why don't you start, Brad?

00:04:19 [Brad Burnham]
I'm not sure that was fair, but I will try. So Brad Burnham, been a partner at USB for, as we found out today, 22 years. And before that, I was a partner at AT&T Ventures. And before that, I did a bunch of different things for AT&T. The slow hunch that I have been following is that. There is something about information and the technology that enables the flow of information that is empowering to people and is fundamentally transformative in many different ways. Something that I've thought about, probably since college where I studied political science and political theory, and understood, tried to understand the nature of power, and how information and power interacted; then transferred that into thinking about markets, and how information impacts markets, and have been very privileged to be able to work on that problem slowly for my entire career.

00:05:27 [SPEAKER_1]
I'm Fred Wilson, and Brad and I founded USV together, I guess, 22 years ago, although I think that's a little bit incorrect because I think it was more like the middle of 2003 that we really decided.that we were going to do it. And I will say that teaming up with Brad helped me a lot because for the first, whatever, 15 years that I was in venture capital, I wasn't as idea driven. And I think it was really partnering up with Brad that helped me become more idea driven. And I think USV really represents an idea focused venture firm. And that really helped me become a better version.of the investor that I was when we started USV. But I do remember going back all the way to my childhood that when I first encountered computers, they really inspired me in some formative ways. I was, for example, not very good at writing by hand. You have terrible handwriting. Yeah. I actually got very bad fine motor skills. Really struggled at writing as a kid and I couldn't write more than like a one-page book report, for example. But then when I learned how to type, I could all of a sudden write five or six pages and that opened a lot for me. And then when I started experiencing computers, the idea that digitizing things made them more useful was really important to me. And I do remember as a teenager, my brother and I were like playing records and we were pulling records out of the record covers and putting them on the turntable and playing them. And I said to my brother, 'I was like, imagine if like all of this would just be on one big hard drive, like every record that was ever invented was on one big hard drive, and we could just play whatever we wanted by just like pushing a button.'Of course, that became the iPod. And now, of course, it's all is on one computer in the cloud-right? It isn't even like each of us has a computer; I didn't get all the way to the fact that it would be in the cloud, but I did get, probably at age 15, to the idea that it would be much better if it was all on a hard drive. And so, that to me, the slow hunch of just like getting everything that had been analog to be digital would just open up a lot of opportunities was something that I'd had from a very young age.

00:07:51 [SPEAKER_2]
And it sounds like you both came at the same idea, but in a slightly different way in terms of the importance of let's call it information or data or, and what maybe computers would do to kind of open them up. But that way predated any idea of being an investor or having a career in investing.

00:08:12 [Brad Burnham]
Fred has a way of coming from the practical reality to an opportunity, and I tend to come from the theory down to the opportunity, and that's worked well.

00:08:23 [SPEAKER_1]
When they meet, it's really great, right?

00:08:26 [Brad Burnham]
Sometimes they don't.

00:08:28 [SPEAKER_1]
But when Brad and I would agree about something, you know, we were usually right about that because we were, like I said, like Brad said, coming at it, I think from a different place, but getting to the same place. I'm very pragmatic and want to get to an answer and want to get to a decision. And I've always felt that Brad's very principled and wants to get to the right decision and is not in a hurry, but will get there when he gets there. And so that's a tension, but it's a pretty healthy tension, right? Because someone who's very pragmatic needs somebody who's coming from first principles to keep you connected to that. But I think somebody who's very patient and wants to get to the truth in the real world, some urgency of like, 'but we need to make some investments'is helpful.

00:09:18 [Brad Burnham]
That showed itself very early on when we sat down and decided to do this together. Fred's first instinct was to, okay, let's go. And my first instinct was, go where? And so I sort of put the brakes on in a way and said, look, I don't feel comfortable going out and pitching a bunch of people about investing with us unless I know what I'm going to do. do. I painfully maybe took Fred through probably almost three or four months of, let's work through this. We found Carlotta Perez and a theoretical framework for where we were in the cycle of the market and everything else. I think that it worked well. I think it worked well in part because of where we were in the cycle of the market. If we were in a period of consolidation, I think it would not have worked and wouldn't have benefited from that. We were able to take advantage of a moment in part because we spent the time to do that.

00:10:20 [SPEAKER_2]
Well, so maybe we can talk a little bit about how you guys met. When did that happen? How did that happen?

00:10:29 [SPEAKER_1]
Brad and I met working on a company in the mid-90s called Multex. And I had led the seed round in that company at a firm called Euclid Partners, which is the first venture firm I worked at. And Brad's partner at AT &T Ventures, a guy named Alessandro Pio, he's a big guy and a big personality. And he had let that investment and then I guess in the next round, whatever the series A, and then he had left and Brad was essentially handed this investment to take over. And so Brad showed up in a board meeting and the company was kind of a mess, like many things that we invest in are. I just watched Brad kind of go to work very methodically identifying the holes in Isaac, the founder's product and go-to-market plan. And, and Isaac was annoyed that Brad was picking it apart, and I was impressed. And eventually Isaac pivoted to the vision that Brad sort of had been articulating for a while and then taking full credit for it, by the way, full credit, like it was his idea. And Brad. Very wisely allowed him to do it because he understood that as long as Isaac got to the right place, it didn't really matter who got the credit. That company ultimately went public and got sold to Reuters for a good amount of money. And that was where we met.

00:11:55 [Brad Burnham]
I was seated in a room when Fred walked in the first time we met. It was like this tornado walked into the room and made a huge impression on me. I also had the privilege of watching him work that deal for a couple years, several years, I think, before. But then we each went our separate ways, and Fred then went on to found Flatiron Partners and had a great run with that. I continued with AT&T Ventures for a bunch of years. And we didn't come back together, I don't think, until Dakota.

00:12:30 [SPEAKER_1]
Brad has this great saying that it's important to do the right thing, not do things right.

00:12:37 [Brad Burnham]
It's not mine. It is a mentor of mine way back in the early days at AT&T, a guy named Rich McGinn, who went on to run Lucent. He used to say you can be successful in two ways. You can be successful by doing the right thing or doing things right. And that's always been a guiding light for me because you run into entrepreneurs who, you know, iterate and iterate and iterate, but they're they execute well and so that buys them the time to do things right and ultimately they find a fit. And then you run into other entrepreneurs that are just riding this rocket ship because they happen to you know stumble on the right thing very early on. And, you know, I think Twitter would be an example of doing everything wrong, but doing the right thing. Right.

00:13:23 [SPEAKER_1]
But Multic's an example of the opposite. Isaac was quite capable of doing things right, like building software, shipping software, getting customers, but he wasn’t doing the right thing. And I felt in hindsight, looking back, I had a lot of energy, but was mostly focused on doing things right, but not necessarily doing the right thing. And when Brad showed up and pointed, poked holes in it, I noticed very clearly like there was another way of thinking about what the company was doing that I hadn’t really been feeling. It was pretty influential for me.

00:13:58 [SPEAKER_2]
And so there was a moment where you each realized, okay, that other guy is interesting and maybe it's helping me see the world a little differently or maybe represent something I think is interesting or is complimentary. And then a lot of time, a fair amount of time passes.

00:14:17 [SPEAKER_1]
I'd say maybe like five years, maybe a little less, but could have been three or four.

00:14:24 [Brad Burnham]
Well, retire, boom and bust.

00:14:26 [SPEAKER_1]
Right. The internet boomed and then bust. The firm that I was at at the time called Flatiron Partners effectively went out of business when the internet blew up in 2001. And Brad and his partners had the rug pulled out from under them by the new CEO of AT&T who decided that he didn't like AT&T having a venture firm that he didn't control. Do I have that right?

00:14:50 [Brad Burnham]
Yep.

00:14:51 [SPEAKER_1]
And so we were both out of a job for totally different reasons. And I was trying to figure out what to do next. I really wanted to stay in venture. And Brad had seed funded a company called Dakota, led by a guy named Dave Morgan, who's well known to everybody at USV because we've backed him several times now. And Brad invited me to angel invest in Dakota. And I did. And angel investing was part of my way of kind of figuring out what to do next. I joined the board of Dakota and it was Brad and me and Dave. And Dave's great and brings a lot of energy. But it just felt like, hey, we're good at this. We can work with a founder like Dave and you can bring the thing you do. I can bring the thing I do and we get the right founder and it could be magic. That's really, I think, Dakota, in my mind, was really the thing that seeded USV because that to me was like, oh, yeah, we can be good together.

00:15:56 [Brad Burnham]
There's another piece that you're skipping over that made a huge impression on me, and that is the way in which you worked out from under Flatiron. Because when we came back together at Dakota, you were still essentially triaging a very large portfolio that had been a very big part of the boom and then the bust. I had been a little bit more fortunate in a way to sort of have, actually, it was AT&T that decided to bring venture investing back in-house at the height of the bubble and sort of took us out of the market before the bust. And so I sort of stepped aside. Fred had to go all the way through that. But the way he stuck with portfolio companies, worked out the problems, triaged, saved the best, and then managed them, I got to see all of that because we were on the board together at Dakota while he was doing that. And so that made a huge impression on me.

00:16:55 [SPEAKER_2]
You each came from venture with different flavors, and maybe there were things about it that didn't feel the best. And I know that when you started USB, you had an idea of what kind of firm you wanted it to be, and you designed it in a very intentional way.

00:17:12 [SPEAKER_1]
Going back to the two ways to do things, do things right or do the right thing, My skills in venture were a lot about doing venture right. Brad talks about working out the portfolio, triaging the portfolio, staying with the companies, being there for the founders, sticking it out for the long haul. That's very much about how to do the venture business right. I feel very strongly about that. I had that even then in my DNA. Brad really taught me was how to do the right thing, which is what to invest in. I was just like, we're just going to invest. I said to Brad, 'We're just going to invest in the internet.'That'd be great. He's like, 'Yeah, but Fred, there's a lot of the internet. Where are we going to invest?'I think when you think about USV, I think it's two people who both had a lot to bring and we both brought it. USB, I think, does both of those things. I think we do venture right, and we also do the right venture.

00:18:16 [SPEAKER_2]
I like to think so. Well, let's talk about that moment then, not just when you decided to work together, but you decided to work together on a certain type of thing with a certain type of firm. How did that come together? What was that process like?

00:18:32 [SPEAKER_1]
I would say Brad led that process, and it was a lot of reading and a lot of meeting people and talking to people. But Brad, maybe you can talk a little bit about how you thought about it.

00:18:43 [Brad Burnham]
It's really important to think about where we were in the market cycle, where we were at the time that we started. So this was 2003, 2004. You know, we'd had the collapse in 2000. That had a profound effect on our business because two things were going on at the same time. The first was that we were in the midst of a generational transition in venture capital. There were a series of firms that had been founded in the 80s where the senior partners were beginning to cede some control over their funds to the younger partners. And those younger partners ran with that in the 90s and rode the bubble and got very excited about the Internet, made a bunch of investments, perhaps overinvested. We had the collapse. And then we had the senior partners kind of reasserting themselves, saying, 'wait a minute, we're going to go back to doing switches and routers and chips. That's hard tech. That's where the money is. This was a flash in the pan. It was not a great idea. And so what that meant was: two things about the business. One is that it left the applications layer of the internet wide open because there was just not a lot of money going to that market when we came into it. And we felt pretty good about this. And this has a lot to do with, you know, the work that we did. It actually, I was first introduced to it by Bill Janeway. And he had found this Argentinian economist, Carlotta Perez, and she had written this book about financial bubbles and capital. And it just felt like, you know, we had been through that infrastructure phase and we are now beginning to see the opportunity to invest in the applications layer. So that is what we ended up working through and committing to. And so we had a lot of conviction about it at the same time that the industry broadly did not.

00:20:50 [SPEAKER_1]
What's interesting, though, is when we went out to raise capital, we had, I think, a really tight story about where we wanted to invest. Most of the people we pitched actually weren't prepared to hear that story. They were not even excited about investing in the Internet. Right. It was a very challenging time to raise a fund. And we ultimately prevailed. But it took us somewhere between 12 and 18 months. I think we got to a first close in about 14 or 15 months. And then it was, you know, like 18 to get to the final close. And it took a couple of younger, more forward-thinking people in large endowments and institutions who understood our story to say yes. And then, you know, like almost any financing, it came together because there was enough people doing it. But it was really hard for a while. I remember hearing that you had something like 80 or 100 nos for sure yeah we had people falling asleep in our pitches and it was bad, it was really bad – people, you know, I mean it.

00:21:56 [Brad Burnham]
You felt pretty small at that point, I mean, you're just like 'but'

00:22:00 [SPEAKER_1]
we believed. Here's the interesting thing, I don't know if it was like for me, I think maybe it was like, I didn't know how to do anything else right – I'd basically been a venture capitalist my entire venture capitalist my entire adult life so I was like, well, I gotta make this work like it's the only thing I know how to do. So we just kept going at it. We didn't lose heart. And we did really, really believe we were at the right place at the right time and we understood what to invest in.

00:22:26 [SPEAKER_2]
During that time when you were getting 10 nos, 20 nos, 50 nos, 70 nos in a row, did any of that cause you to say, maybe we're barking up the wrong tree here, maybe you got the wrong idea?

00:22:40 [Brad Burnham]
We had both invested in the internet. We'd both had successes in the internet. We both believed that, you know, this was a fundamentally transformative new infrastructure. So that was never in doubt. What I learned, at least in that process, was that limited partners fund investors. Yeah, the thesis is sort of interesting, but that's, you know, they're looking at things like track record and have you worked together? A first-time fund. And frankly, several of those things were against us. This was a first-time fund. It was a first-time fund, which we were taking to market at a time when a bunch of the limited partner community had made a series of investments in the late 90s in first-time funds that had all kinds of collapsed in the post-bubble. We never had a doubt in the thesis, but I came to at least understand why we were having such a struggle.

00:23:36 [SPEAKER_2]
But eventually, somebody said yes. And you got put in business as USV. Correct. So that was a big moment.

00:23:46 [Brad Burnham]
Well, yes and no. It's a funny moment because I got the call from Linda Lakeman at Utimco saying, 'We're going to do your fund.'And I said, 'I think, thank you very much'and hung up. And I think I, I'm not sure you were in the office that day. I mean, I'm pretty sure I walked into your office and said, 'Hey, we got Utimco.'I didn't understand the implications of that. But they made a $25 million commitment to a $125 million fund, followed very quickly by the state of Oregon. And at that point, all of a sudden there was scarcity in the fund allocations. And we were dealing with people, you know, begging us to get in.

00:24:29 [SPEAKER_1]
We had a few other people like Jamie Spirans, who was at the time at Morgan Stanley, who liked our story. But for whatever reason, wasn't going to say yes. And he was just sitting on the fence and waiting to see if we could get some real commitments. The minute we got those two commitments, he was like, OK, I'm in. Right. And then there were a few other people like that. Jamie comes to mind mostly because I think he really got it. He's one of the few people that when we pitch it, he was like, 'yes, this is right.'But even so, he wasn't really willing to lead. But he did follow very quickly. And so it came together pretty fast after that.

00:25:10 [SPEAKER_2]
There had been all this carnage in internet investing and internet applications, but you really felt there was a moment that new things were going to spring up. What was it like at the beginning as you started to invest along what you thought was the USP thesis of that time? What did the first few investments teach you about what was working and what wasn't?

00:25:30 [SPEAKER_1]
We started pretty slowly. I think maybe made four investments in our first year. That first fund, we took four years to invest. There were a couple of investments we made that were very formative. A great example is a company called Delicious, started by a guy named Josh Achter, and he sold it to Yahoo pretty quickly. It was a bookmarking service in the cloud. So when you found a webpage you liked, you bookmarked it, but you didn't bookmark it to your browser, which was the conventional. Approach at the time you booked it to effectively a web service in the cloud and then the the big thing about it was that people would leave tags and then you could follow those tags so if you were following the # tag, you would see anything that anybody bookmarked so it was it was an open and social bookmarking system and so much about that company like was And we were all in on it. And we didn't make a very large investment. Maybe a million or two million. Sounds right. Really kind of tiny. And I think we made maybe 10 million when it sold. So it wasn't that impactful to the fund. But I really think it validated a lot of the ideas that we had when we went out to raise the fund. It also taught us a few things. Social was emerging. These big open platforms that were emerging, they started to call it Web2. And we were like, yeah, okay, that's the thing that we were kind of talking about, but didn't have a name. And so that was very helpful. So the thesis continued to develop over time in the course of that fund.

00:27:08 [SPEAKER_2]
One thing that's interesting to me about slow hunches is that oftentimes you have an idea, but don't know what to call it. Right. And then eventually somebody comes up with a name or a word that just like crystallizes something and makes it more clear. And then that. Draws more attention and clarity and you know momentum, so I think that's really interesting because if I understand the thesis of USV 2004 function which was the first one it was about the application layer of the internet being an open opportunity but the story of Delicious is not just about the applications later the internet it's about a new style of application where you connect all the people from all the different places and you put the data in the cloud and it becomes more of a network than just a piece of software. That's a really big idea that became known as Web2 or, you know, social web. But that idea, well, you didn't have a name for that in 2003.

00:28:01 [SPEAKER_1]
It was a very exciting and heady time. I was writing a blog and I could find something interesting to write about every single day. The dirty little secret about my blog is that many of the ideas on my blog were Brad's ideas. That he would come in and talk to me about for 15 or 20 minutes. And then the next morning I'd write a blog post and take full credit for these ideas.

00:28:25 [Brad Burnham]
Well, that's worth talking about because I remember having conversations with our limited partners where they were saying, does Fred actually do any work? And because he was writing, right? That was a brand new idea. We had limited partners just saying, wait a minute, you're spending all this time writing. You're giving away all of your best ideas. This makes absolutely no sense to us. How could this possibly work? And yet we both intuitively believed in it. And it turned out to be maybe the first real blog in the VC industry. And we very quickly understood that, you know, it's just a Bill Joy thing that you say that there are more smart people outside the company than inside the company. And we found many of those people as a result of this dialogue with the marketplace. And now it's like you can't be in the business without talking to the marketplace. And so that was a big unlock, I think, for us.

00:29:25 [SPEAKER_1]
But that in itself led to some investments because blogging, I think, in many ways, was the first version of social media. And of course, we got Twitter and we got Instagram, we got TikTok, we got YouTube. Not in that order, by the way. But because we were really all in on blogging and understood that putting your ideas out there got people to follow you, we started to see social emerge and these social platforms emerge. And that allowed us to understand the potential for how big they could be and allowed us to make some early important investments in that category. And I remember like in 2007 and 2008 writing a lot about how I thought that social would perform better on an advertising basis than search. At that time, that was a very contrarian view. How could you ever outperform search? Search is where all the intent is. How could anything be more valuable than intent? And I just thought that social, potentially, because of the instinct for people to follow other people and everything, could actually be more valuable. I don't know that social outperforms search, but it's certainly of the same order of magnitude as search. That was a very unconventional view at the time. And we believed it.

00:30:45 [SPEAKER_2]
Right.

00:30:45 [SPEAKER_1]
And that led to Twitter, Tumblr, Zynga would be the ones that I would point to and a bunch of others that didn't work.

00:30:53 [Brad Burnham]
I have a very clear memory of sitting in the Twitter office in South Park with Ev and Jack. You know, I don't remember how we got to that.

00:31:07 [SPEAKER_1]
The way we got to it was that I was in San Francisco maybe two or three weeks before that. And I took a meeting with a founder in that same office. They didn't have the whole office. It was like kind of a shared founder space. That founder said, yeah, this Twitter thing is really interesting. And it just occurred to me that I should reach out to Ev. So I reached out to Ev and I said, I'm in San Francisco. You know, I heard you're thinking of spinning Twitter out of Odeo. We'd love to finance that spin out. Can we talk about that? And he said, 'Yeah, why don't you come back in a few weeks and meet with Jack and I, and we'll talk more about it.'And so I said, 'Okay, we got to get on a plane and go.'What was so interesting about that was that they interviewed us. We never got a pitch from them. We went in saying, 'We like this, we want to invest in it.'We didn't commit to invest in it, but we gave them the sense that we would. And so they spent the hour, hour and a half that we had really digging into what we thought they should do in terms of go-to-market, how they should bring Twitter to the world. And we were very long, there's an API, let other people build on the platform, focus on the social, focus on the web. And they were getting pitched by other VCs, this is a text-based thing, this is a mobile thing. Go make deals with the carriers, really blow it out with a sort of a carrier-centric go-to-market. We were like, we don't like that idea. We think that's a bad idea. You already have this sort of inherently social, viral thing going. Just go with that. And they called us back. We didn't have an idea whether they liked what we said or not, but they called us back. Ev called me back and said, 'We like you guys because you want to do what we want to do.'What are you thinking in terms of amount and price? And so we sent them a term sheet. But what's so great about that is that's exactly what founders should do. They found the VC that was aligned with them on how they wanted to run the business. And they took the money from somebody who wanted to go where they wanted to go.

00:33:21 [Brad Burnham]
They were being pushed by other investors to monetize the minutes that they were putting on the texting networks. And this is part of, you know, gaining conviction about what's important and where it's headed. We were perfectly comfortable saying, no, we don't, you know, we don't need a near-term monetization strategy at all. We did not, I don't think, you know, in some ways we were ultimately disappointed with the monetization strategy that Twitter developed because it forced them to move away from some of the openness that we'd encouraged them to follow. But we didn't need to see that. And I think had we not done the work to build conviction around the value of these networks, we wouldn't have had that.

00:34:10 [SPEAKER_1]
It's really one of my great regrets. I mean, you can't be regretful about an investment that is so transformative as Twitter. And the returns we made were phenomenal. But I think we knew that Twitter was essentially a protocol. And had we had the conviction that they could monetize it as a protocol, and had we really pounded the table at the board to do that, I think Twitter could look like Ethereum or look like Bitcoin today. And it's just the timing didn't line up.

00:34:49 [Brad Burnham]
I think you're being too hard on yourself there because there was no framework for thinking about that. The best we could do is look at something like open source and Red Hat or something like that. And the best we could imagine at that point was like a Red Hat business model, which wouldn't have been that exciting.

00:35:06 [SPEAKER_1]
No, that was not the right answer. But that's why the timing was unfortunate. If we had waited another three or four years to commit to a business model, which I don't think Twitter could have waited, then it would have been clear that that would have been available to us. You know, Ethereum is worth 450 billion or something, right? And Elon bought Twitter for 45 or something. So it's like a 10x, you know, potential opportunity. But leaving the money aside, like what Twitter as a protocol could be for the world versus Twitter as this media megaphone owned by a single guy, you know, I mean, God, that's a missed opportunity in my mind.

00:35:48 [SPEAKER_2]
And maybe it's still an open opportunity, someone else's opportunity, maybe ours. What's interesting about this whole conversation to me is you're trying to think about how things could be different in the future. I think you had an instinct about openness being important, right? And so, and the cloud, and social, but sort of openness being better than closeness. And the intuition with Twitter was, boy, it would be better if we could open it up to developers, if we could open it up to other clients, if we didn't have to lock it down. But even before that, there was an intuition that we can be more open by having an ad-based model versus having a subscription model.

00:36:29 [SPEAKER_1]
That's what Google taught us, right? Google taught us that you could sell software with an advertising-based model. They did that and competed very effectively with Microsoft who had a more outdated licensing model. The idea of freemium as a business model where you give it away for free and some percentage of the users decide to pay for some power features, that emerged in the 2000s as a business model. It had not really existed because how could you have actually made that business model work without the internet and all that?

00:37:02 [SPEAKER_2]
And so in some ways where Twitter ended up with its business model, was a very modern model compared to the 90s and early 2000s. But it couldn’t go as far as it might have gone in terms of being more open because that type of business model maybe hadn’t been invented yet. Like, how do you monetize a protocol, for instance?

00:37:22 [SPEAKER_1]
Right. And what was going on at the time was that Bill Gross was buying up Twitter clients and trying to effectively fork the protocol. We didn’t call it that at the time, but looking at it back now, that’s exactly what would have happened. And he had accumulated, I don’t know, maybe 20 or 30 percent of all Twitter users on these clients that he bought. That felt like an existential threat to the business. And that led to the board deciding to lock down Twitter and not allow third-party clients, which I don't think many people understand. That decision was a reaction to an existential threat. I think people just thought that the Twitter did something because they wanted to do it. I guess it's the same thing at the end of the day, but it is a little different. And if you had a protocol with a protocol token, you could have a shared incentive structure that would allow somebody like Bill Gross to go in and amass a reasonable amount of market power without necessarily creating an existential threat. But again, we didn't understand all that. Five or ten years too early.

00:38:32 [SPEAKER_2]
And so when that all went down with Twitter sort of closing and the Bill Gross, you know, client acquisition story, that was when?2010?

00:38:42 [SPEAKER_1]
2011? I don't know, around then.

00:38:44 [SPEAKER_2]
So that's an interesting year because that's also right around the time when Bitcoin was invented.
