00:38:42 [SPEAKER_1]
2011? I don't know, around then.

00:38:44 [SPEAKER_2]
So that's an interesting year because that's also right around the time when Bitcoin was invented.

00:38:53 [SPEAKER_1]
2009. January 2009, I believe, is when the white paper was published.

00:38:57 [SPEAKER_2]
Right. And so if you think about the timing of those two things, it's very interesting timing. And to me, it helps explain or it explains a lot of why USV was interested in Bitcoin early. I joined at the end of 2011. And I remember shortly thereafter, we were talking about what is Bitcoin. And I think the dominant view of Bitcoin at the time was 'internet money', which is not incorrect, but it's also not the whole story. And I think we started looking at it as, oh, actually, this is a computing protocol, sort of like HTTP, sort of like SMTP, but that can store data in it and can capture value in it. And this idea of Bitcoin as protocol was a really, really big idea. And then Albert published, do you remember Albert published a blog post, I think in 2013, called 'Bitcoin as Protocol'.Which was the result of maybe a year's worth of discussion inside USP about the ability for a new generation of protocols to emerge that could do really different things, could solve some of the problems that you were sensing during the Twitter days.

00:40:10 [SPEAKER_1]
For me, the first piece of pattern recognition around Bitcoin was this idea of a permissionless network. And we'd had it already with the internet. For me, it was just like this raw pattern recognition, like, oh, this very reminiscent of something that was big, big, big and influential in my life. And this feels like it's going to happen all over again. Like everything at USV, I came in with a ton of energy for this thing. And Brad and Albert and everybody else, it sounds like you were just arriving at that time. It ended up in a very long conversation and we debated and discussed it. And ultimately, Albert had some important insights to contribute around this being a protocol, which I think unlocked a lot of things for us as we thought about how to invest in it. For me, that's how it first happened.

00:41:06 [Brad Burnham]
I think Vitalik did come into our conference room at USV with this group of people from his hangars on that, that's an example of um us intuitively understanding that there was something really important here but then also having frankly I had a sort of a negative reaction to the people surrounding that that group at that point. There's always a trade between you know backing the people and backing the idea, and you know that's an example where the idea was much more important and powerful. I mean, the central person, Vitalik, is a very special person. But he somehow, he was so young at the time, he was surrounded by folks that I didn't like as much.

00:41:52 [SPEAKER_2]
People come at crypto from a lot of different ways. Some come from more financial lens, some come more from an internet lens. I've always thought of USB as having this aha moment about, oh, Bitcoin is like the internet, as opposed to Bitcoin as a new kind of money.

00:42:10 [SPEAKER_1]
And you can see that in the investments that we made early on. We invested in storage as a protocol, Filecoin. We invested in identity as a protocol, which ultimately became Stacks, but it was called One Name.

00:42:22 [SPEAKER_2]
And this was a very early idea. Maneeb and Ryan from that project had the idea that a fundamental and profound idea that not only could we do computing, low-level computing primitives, but that you could actually have a digital identity on the blockchain stack that you had more ownership over. That was in 2014. Really early and a really huge idea that is still a really huge idea.

00:42:48 [SPEAKER_1]
Right. I think we were too early. Filecoin has been a success, but we were too early to some of those ideas. I think what we needed in hindsight to happen was for Ethereum, and smart contracts to emerge, and a programmable substrate to exist that then you could build on top of.

00:43:06 [SPEAKER_2]
I think there's a tension, there has been, and probably will continue to be a tension in the crypto asset and blockchain space around how it's viewed. Is it viewed as a speculative environment where everybody's just there to get rich quick and cash out? Or will it ultimately become viewed more like the internet is viewed as a as a fabric, you know, for digitally native fabrics for transactions, data, communications that has these special properties.

00:43:36 [Brad Burnham]
If you talk to the people who are building in the space, that's what they're building. You know, if you talk to the people, I mean, there's certainly there have been people in the space who saw an opportunity to create something and there was an ICO boom and bust. But the engineers, you know, distributed systems engineers who are building this are building for all of the reasons that we believe in. That an open system is more generative than, you know, siloed closed systems. That, you know, users should have more control over a data asset. That shared data assets allow for composability. And all these themes are very, very present in the engineers that we work with on this.

00:44:22 [SPEAKER_1]
You know, one of the things that we struggle with at USV is the role that the large companies in tech play in the overall tech environment. And, you know, what we've seen over the last 15 years is companies like Apple and Google start to lock down a lot of this inside their own closed systems.way to fight against that. Another area I think that we have concerns around is AI. If AI is only available to companies that can afford the billions of dollars that it takes to train these large models, then it's going to be companies, startups that have raised billions of dollars, and then the big tech companies. And so one area in AI that's been very interesting is some of the ideas behind crypto can marry AI, decentralized training, and decentralized infrastructure, and things like that, in the hope that we end up with an open AI infrastructure as opposed to a closed AI infrastructure. And that's kind of a raging thing right now inside USV, and how that's going to play out.

00:45:41 [SPEAKER_2]
And in one way, I always thought of part of the slow hunch of USV as actually, we wrote about it in last year, our updated thesis statements around empowering the edge.

00:45:51 [Brad Burnham]
This emergent, decentralized, bottom-up innovation is so much more generative because, you know, and, you know, frankly, starting my career at AT&T and seeing the difficulty of getting interesting things done in large organizations, when you get to a certain scale, you have so much of a vested interest in existing structures and everything else that you're not willing. But if the If the market allows for that innovation to emerge outside of these large organizations, it's a huge win.

00:46:22 [SPEAKER_2]
It's a really interesting moment because on the one hand, AI is this highly consolidating force where you need billions and billions of dollars to train these models, which is why we're looking at decentralized purchasing and so on and so forth. At the same time, it's never been a better time to build.

00:46:38 [SPEAKER_1]
You know, I had breakfast with a friend who built an app over the weekend. She didn't write one line of code.

00:46:44 [SPEAKER_2]
Pretty amazing. And the Web 2.0 version of that is, oh, we didn't have to rack our servers and run all this stuff locally. We used AWS. It's kind of sort of like that, where it's just getting easier and easier to build. And so I guess my point is there's oftentimes these tensions between freedom and openness and consolidation. The fact that OpenAI and Anthropic and all these companies have invested these billions of dollars, on the one hand, gives them control over the market for now, but it's also unleashing open innovation at a crazy rate.

00:47:20 [SPEAKER_1]
What we hope it's not like is when platforms like Facebook and Twitter gave people new social infrastructure to build on top of, and then lots of people went and built stuff, and then they closed it down and those people were left hanging, right?

00:47:36 [Brad Burnham]
We talked earlier in this conversation about our commitment to the applications layer of the web. And when we first started investing in that applications layer, I don't think we fully understood network effects. We intuitively understood and wanted to support this emergent innovation and its openness. And so that led us to the applications layer. We later came to understand network effects. And then we invested enthusiastically in those. What we didn't fully understand at the time is how powerful those network effects were going to be. And that's what led to the consolidation around Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon. And so having seen that movie, are we approaching AI in a different way? Are we approaching AI perhaps a little bit looking over our shoulder and thinking, are we missing something? Is there a vector of consolidation here that we're not seeing? There's the obvious capital requirements associated with training a big model. But is there some other element? We're going into this trying to find those opportunities that can basically lock in structural openness instead of allowing for that consolidation. And if we can do that, I think we're in for a really, really exciting next few years.

00:48:54 [SPEAKER_2]
We talked a lot about. The evolution of some of the big ideas that have been part of the slow hunt of Union Square Ventures, mostly focusing on the things that maybe we got right. Curious looking back, like anything that you feel like you got wrong?

00:49:10 [Brad Burnham]
Oh, I've got a bunch. I mean, we're talking about the anti-portfolio, the things that we passed on, right? I think probably I am in part responsible for, let's say, passing on Airbnb. When Airbnb was pitched to us, it was literally pitched as an air mattress. And I was too old to sleep on the living room floor on an air mattress. And you know, I just said, this doesn't, you know, like, so lesson there that, you know, boy, I have to learn again and again and again is that you are not the market. Putting yourself in that position is a really terrible idea as an investor. You know, understand who the market is, understand who's going to use this product, but you are not the market. And so that's one square we passed on.

00:50:00 [SPEAKER_1]
After going through the Twitter experience and working closely with Jack, I just, for whatever reason, just didn't see payments as like the place that he was going to go next. And I just didn't have an open enough mind around that, that he could do for payments what he had done in social and create something amazing that the world wanted to use, which he did.

00:50:22 [Brad Burnham]
We understood how difficult it was to play into the existing financial services market. And he was front-ending the existing. We had the exact same problem with Stripe. The Collisions came in before they took their first round of financing and presented to us. And it was like, wow, you know, energetic, smart kids, you know, working on an interesting problem, but they're messing with this regulated industry that has all this entrenched market power, and how are they going to play into it? Well, in both cases, I think we missed developers. We missed developers as the customers, and understanding that all of a sudden there was going to be this whole new marketplace online that's going to be playing in, that's being served by developers. That are going to need a back end. And, you know, I think we didn't see that. I didn't see that.

00:51:18 [SPEAKER_1]
One big blind spot that I had when we invested in Coinbase, you know, we invested in a company, a very traditional company that was building on top of Bitcoin, right? And I thought, that's great. Like, that's the way to invest in Bitcoin. A few years later, we hired an analyst named Joel Manegro. And Joel said to me, Fred, like, why didn't you just buy the Bitcoin? Like, just, you know, why did you need to invest in Coinbase? Why did you know this was maybe a moment where I just finished reporting to the team that there was some management upheaval at Coinbase and Brian was going to have to hire some new people to run parts of the company. And it was, you know, causing him some stress and me some stress. And Joe was like, you know, why, why go through all that trouble? Just buy Bitcoin, you know? And I was like, but Joe, we don't buy Bitcoin. Like we're a venture capital firm. We invest in startups. You know, Bitcoin's like not, not a startup. He said, I think you're wrong about that. And he said, you know, these are protocols and these are the protocol tokens and you need to be investing in them. And of course, he was right about that. We, of course, corrected and, you know, we've been investing in tokens and protocols for almost 10 years now. But I didn't understand that when we wrote the check into Coinbase, I didn't even think that maybe at the same time we should buy some Bitcoin too. Or maybe just buy Bitcoin. I mean, I'm very glad we invested in Coinbase and worked with an incredible group of people. And it's just been a great experience. So I'm really glad we did that. But the idea that we could have also bought Bitcoin, like that would have been smart. The other thing I said to Joel, I remember this conversation so well. I said, you know, Bitcoin's like Facebook. It's publicly traded. Like our limited partners don't hire us to go buy publicly traded stocks. They can do that themselves. And he said, Fred, they're not going to buy Bitcoin. And of course, he was right about that. They still don't buy Bitcoin. Some of them do now. But like 10 years later, most of them are not buying Bitcoin. His point was like, you will be doing them an enormous favor by buying Bitcoin because they're not going to do it.

00:53:18 [Brad Burnham]
I'm really proud of the way that USV has been willing to change. This came to me, was really etched in my mind with our experience with Tumblr. That, you know, when we made the first investment in Tumblr. I think it was a $350,000 investment. And we had a very small piece of the company for that. And it was like, well, that makes no sense. I mean, the reason we were able to make the investment is that everybody else throwing money at David Karp was saying, 'I need to own 20% of the company'and you need to take a check for $5 million. And he said, 'I don't need $5 million.'And he didn't. And so the thing that Tumblr taught me is that the economics of the web are such that we have this shared infrastructure that we're all paying for because we pay for our internet access that we're riding on top of, and I can grow my costs grow as my as the size of my network grows, not I don't have this big investment in software up front and infrastructure up front or research and development up front that I need to you know capitalize with venture capital and then get to pay a return on. And so We ended up, I think, having about $7 million in Tumblr by the end, but we just kept putting money in. And that was a brand new muscle for a venture capital firm at the time.

00:54:39 [SPEAKER_1]
Yeah. I also was amazed that David and Marco, who was the other person that was working on Tumblr with David when we invested, it was just two people. And they got a very long way, just two people. I think they went another year or 18 months before they hired a third person. They got Tumblr to a very significant scale.

00:54:57 [Brad Burnham]
I think of it as 20 million users and two people, right? Think about that.

00:55:01 [SPEAKER_1]
It's incredible.

00:55:02 [Brad Burnham]
Which maybe somebody will do in the AI world.

00:55:04 [SPEAKER_2]
You build up infrastructure layers that are capital intensive to build, but once they're built, they really open up the playing field, right? And that was true for the internet itself. It was true for, you know, kind of the base of social web, blockchain and crypto networks. Are there another form of that infrastructure that are now open and buildable. And then here we are today with AI models being the next version of a massive infrastructure that took a huge investment to make, but that now has opened things way up. And so at each of those turns, I guess it caused USB to think a little bit differently about how to invest at that moment. And we're at another one of those turns now, I think. Right.

00:55:51 [Brad Burnham]
Well, watching the consolidation around Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, and Web2, and then seeing Web3 emerging, having had the experience with Twitter and closing off the fire hose, and then seeing Web3 as an infrastructure that can't be evil, not just promises not to be evil, but can't be evil, that begs the question of what is it about AI and the training models? Is there a mechanism?that we can envision that can't be evil in AI. And what will that look like? You know, it's going to have something to do with openness. It's going to have something to do with access and the inability for a platform to do a rug pull on all the value adders on top of that platform. And, you know, I think that's a really interesting part of the conversation.

00:56:43 [SPEAKER_2]
Another idea from Stephen's book that the slow hunch comes from is something he calls the adjacent possible. So it's another reason why change doesn't happen immediately. It happens incrementally because you can only open the door that's adjacent to the space you're in now. Once you get into the next space, you can open the next door and the next door and the next door. Fred, I think you wrote something on your blog recently to the effect of it's hard to remember a time where there's as much opportunity for innovation as there is right now. Which is a really interesting statement.

00:57:17 [SPEAKER_1]
One of the things that's really exciting to me is that over the last few years at USV, we have extended our investing aperture into some new areas like energy, the energy transition, and starting to make a couple of investments in biology. And what is so obvious is that our legacy franchises in software and AI and Web3 are going to be really useful in these new areas, right? And that might not be as obvious to somebody who has just been investing in bio their entire life or just investing in energy, but because we are investing across all these sectors, we can see how AI might change biology or we can see how Web3 might change energy.

00:58:12 [SPEAKER_2]
It's interesting because it's reminiscent of early USV 2003, 2004, where because of the investment in the core internet, it was possible to do new things at, let's call it the applications layer, the use case layer. It sounds like you're saying the same thing, but with a new set of primitives that include crypto and AI. Right.

00:58:31 [SPEAKER_1]
So AI infrastructure is largely these large models that have been trained. With billions of dollars and now can just be accessed via an API call. Web3 infrastructure is the idea that a million people can turn on their computer and collectively do something, mine Bitcoin or train a model or anything. And as Brad pointed out, there's enormous amount of innovation and decentralized computing to make that happen. People just didn't turn on a bunch of computers, and it worked. Decades and decades of software has been built to make that work.

00:59:05 [SPEAKER_2]
And add to the list of capabilities that crypto gives, it's global instant payments. It's turning everything into a digital asset that can be used to create incentive to build a new business model.

00:59:18 [SPEAKER_1]
Right. Exactly. And so what's exciting for me is how all of these areas that we're investing in touch each other and create these adjacent possibles.

00:59:30 [Brad Burnham]
Share Fred's enthusiasm for what will soon be possible and what is emerging right now. I also worry a little bit that we are still in this era of consolidation. One of the things that USV has always focused on is empowering individuals, empowering the edge, empowering entrepreneurs. I think one of the biggest threats to that opportunity is Apple. And it's not that Apple is in some way maliciously actually trying to prevent the emergence of this. It's just they're in this position where they have the privilege of being able to watch what happens in their app stores, watch engagement, and then integrate that set of services in a way that creates a user experience that's better than the siloed experience of in and out of an app for various different functions. You're seeing them integrate music and health and media consumption and everything else. And the question is, how does the relationship between convenience and familiarity interact with the opportunity that's enabled with openness and standardization? I'm obviously rooting for an alternative that will be more open and that will get the benefits of scale through standardization as opposed to platformization. That tension is going to play out over the next couple of years.

01:01:05 [SPEAKER_1]
I have a hunch, I guess we can call it a slow hunch, that AI might actually be the thing that breaks down these walls. And this is going to be a bad example, but I'll give it because it just happened yesterday. I made a playlist, my year-end music playlist on SoundCloud. Our colleague Jared said, 'Gee, I really want to listen to that on Spotify because that's the service that I use to listen to music.'And of course, those two services have a whole bunch of reasons, some that relate to their relationship with the music industry and what they're allowed to do and what they're not allowed to do, and some which have to do with their business model that they don't allow interoperability between those services. But I said, 'Why can't you just tell an AI?'To go look at my playlist on SoundCloud and go create it in your Spotify account, That's got to be easy to do, right? And so as people become more and more comfortable just telling AIs to break down these silos, the silos are going to get broken down. And then once these silos get broken down, I think the people whose business models have relied on these silos may have to rethink their business models. So I have a hunch, and it's very half-baked at best. The AI and the user's ability to start to get AIs to do this work that would have been too hard for them to do otherwise. They're not going to go one by one and go recreate the SoundCloud playlist over here, but they would be happy to just tell an AI to do it. So I don't know. I think the silos are going to get broken down because users are going to figure out how to break them down.

01:02:40 [Brad Burnham]
I agree that AI is going to turn out to be the mechanism that I mean, we're already seeing the ability to actually create apps or applets very, very easily. And if you combine, you mentioned this notion of combining some of the features of Web3 or blockchains and AI. And if you combine those two and you begin to imagine. The composability and the reusability of code and of data within these, you know, there's something really interesting that's going to happen there. I have another thought about the relationship with AI. I mean, most of what people are talking about with AI right now are agents that are going to perform functions. And you describe one, you know, go reproduce a playlist for me. And, you know, in some ways I can imagine that's a pretty safe thing to ask an AI to do because, you know, what's the consequence of getting it wrong? But when you ask an AI to act for you in the world to trade stock or make an airline reservation, there are a bunch of ways that it could go wrong. It hallucinates in that process and creates a portfolio for you that basically, you know, incinerates your net worth, that's not a good thing. And so people are going to have to build these very important guardrails around what AI can do. The coding will be super simple, but the guardrails will be very complicated and we'll have to look at lots of exceptions. Turn it around and say, well, maybe what AI is going to do is more empower individuals to make choices more effectively. And so it's going to organize information on the input side in ways that allow individuals to be much more effective. And where that gets to be really exciting is, you know, completely rethinking the nature of humans'interface to information. And right now we have some fairly old models that were designed around functionality. You know, like I want to be able to, you know, manage a spreadsheet or you know, file something or type something or whatever. Everything has kind of grown up in this notion of function. And we have today on the web a whole bunch of different silos that are each functionally organized. But wow, if you imagine beginning to organize those for individuals contextually, I think of it a little bit like all of us will have the briefing book that the President of the United States has on their desk every morning that, you know, or they'll have.an agent whispering in their ear, you know, reminding them that, you know, they have to be in this place at this time. I can envision a future where each of us is much more effective in pursuing the things that we want to pursue and that we believe in, you know, unconstrained by the market power of dominant providers, which would be pretty exciting.

01:05:41 [SPEAKER_2]
It feels like we're at a moment where the form factor of the technology that we use every day might change in a dramatic way. In 2000, 2004, it was desktop software to cloud internet software. And now it went to mobile and we've been in the app store, app silo world for the last 15 years. And it's possible that that may change. And it may change quickly or slowly, I don't know. But this idea of AI helping us break down walls, helping us see things more cohesively with fewer silos.is going to change, I think, the shape of how we use technology. And that feels like a big opportunity for someone.

01:06:26 [SPEAKER_1]
Voice, for sure. I remember when I was at MIT in the late 70s and early 80s, AI was a pretty hot topic back then. And it took 35 years maybe for AI to live up to the expectations of what some of the computer scientists at MIT had in 1980 for it. But I think voice, as an interface has been around for a long time. Google has had voice on its phone for 10 years at least. But I really start to see more and more people using voice now to prompt AIs and to send text messages when they're in their car. It's slowly but very surely becoming very normal for people to do. And once we have an intelligent agent on the other side of a voice prompt, that can actually do real things as opposed to just kind of convert it into text. We're really at the cusp, I think, of seeing some real unlock there.

01:07:27 [Brad Burnham]
The constraint is no longer the technology. The constraint is more and more becoming the human ability to manage the complexity of the information and the transition from one model of interaction to another. And I think it's really interesting, you know, to think about, you know, who are going to be the early adopters of these new models? And it was pointed out to me recently that I think we all know this, that the early adopters of TikTok were tween girls. Why? They didn't have any prior commitment to a user experience that they were familiar with. They weren't building spreadsheets. You know, they had no reason to think that this wasn't the right way to interact. They didn't have big friend networks that were already on Facebook, you know, already on Facebook. And so boom, you know, and so, you know, one of the things that we have to be looking for here are where these new experiences are going to blossom first. Because boomers like us, like me at least, are going to have a hard time. Moving away from, you know, I've spent an entire life learning how to manipulate this information environment and I can make it work for me. Right. And I don't, you know, I mean, it's going to be hard for me to learn a new one.

01:08:50 [SPEAKER_2]
Well, we should probably start to wrap up here. I'll ask you a question which people ask me all the time. It's been 20 or 22 years since you started USV. You've been investing for decades, even before that. You've been doing this for a long time. Have had a lot of success. People always often ask me, why are you guys still here? And I think Jared posted a picture on Twitter a couple of weeks ago of the two of us sitting back to back in two offices, two rooms in our office with the caption, like, these two guys are always the first two here in the morning, which is true. And I always talk about how, Brad, you know, I know I'm going to find you sitting in the front of the office at 8am or whenever I walk in if it's early. And so clearly you're still interested, still committed, like still curious, have threads you want to pull. But don't let me put those words in your mouth. How do you feel about what's next?

01:09:50 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, for me, venture capital is a little bit of a crutch. I'm very curious, but I'm a little lazy in terms of doing the work to learn something. Venture capital allows me to learn all these new things without having to do a lot of work. I'm surrounded by a bunch of people at USV who are also curious about basically the same things. And so it's a collective learning environment. And then, of course, that's supercharged by all the founders who come in and explain a really deep domains. And, you know, I am blessed with the ability to understand things quickly. So if you give it to me in the right format, I can learn things very quickly. I can't get that anywhere else. I could potentially go get it at another venture firm, but I don't know why I would want to do that. I already have one. So like, why do I need to go get another one? But like, I can't give that up. I don't know where else to get that for what I need to be happy in the world, which is to be learning new things all the time. And so that's why I do it.

01:10:59 [Brad Burnham]
Ditto. But an additional nuance, I learned pretty late in life that I am not; I don't learn that effectively by reading. Because the problem with reading is that most everything you read is 90%, you know, stuff you've already learned. And there's this one insight in the middle of it that really makes you stop and think. When you're sitting across the table from an entrepreneur who's been thinking deeply about a problem for a long time, you can go, no, no, no, I get that part. Tell me about this. I don't get this part. And so it just zeroes you right in on, and it just accelerates your learning. And so same story. It's incredible privilege to be able to, you know, sit with smart people, talk about really interesting things. And, you know. At my point in my career, as I'm trying to step back, I like to say, 'smart people, cool things, don't take any to-dos,'which is, you know, a great spot to be in.

01:12:04 [SPEAKER_1]
Yeah, it is really a wonderful thing to be able to, I mean, almost interrogate. And I realize when I'm with founders, I kind of do that. I realize that that's my UI. To interrogate a founder until I can understand what they're doing, right? Yeah. That is an incredible thing, right? Because there's a moment where you're like, 'Oh, I get it. I know what you're doing now, you know?'And sometimes it doesn't take long. You could do it in two or three minutes if you let me, you know, full-on interrogate. That's, for me, the greatest way to learn. Like you said, Brad, it's a real privilege because they're only doing that because we can write them a check. They're not coming in to educate us out of the goodness of their hearts, but that's what we get from it.

01:12:47 [SPEAKER_2]
And it doesn't get old. It does not get old.

01:12:49 [SPEAKER_1]
Unless you invest in the same thing over and over and over again, which would be boring.

01:12:54 [Brad Burnham]
I know that entrepreneurs appreciate that level of engagement. Entrepreneurs often come into our office and they get this kind of engagement or interrogation. But it's coming from a place of curiosity. It's coming from a place of real interest. And they may have come from an office where somebody sat across the table and said, talk to me about your revenues in, you know, over the next three years.

01:13:19 [SPEAKER_2]
Happens all the time.

01:13:20 [Brad Burnham]
And they're like, well, you know, I mean, don't you want to know why we're doing what we're doing? And we tend to want to know why they're doing what they're doing.

01:13:27 [SPEAKER_1]
I love, Nick, you just won a deal and you found out after the fact that the founder liked us best because you're amazing, but also because one of our partners asked him the hardest questions about the area he's working in that any VC had ever asked. So you're right. I think they do actually, the really good ones actually do like to be asked the really hard questions.

01:13:51 [SPEAKER_2]
Well, with that, I'll stop asking you easy questions and say this has been a real pleasure. We talk about USV as being a conversation. USV is a slow hunch. It's a journey of exploration of how technology is going to intersect with the world; how to be part of it. It's been a real privilege for me to be part of that journey with you and to see how you think, and see how you invest, and see how you build a firm. It's been amazing to witness and to be part of. So thank you for sharing more of your time and insights here today.

01:14:36 [SPEAKER_1]
Our pleasure.