00:00:00 [SPEAKER_3]
Many special thanks to Brad and Fred for making it tonight and for sharing their knowledge. Let's give them a warm welcome. Come on, Berlin, welcome. We tried really hard to find you the smallest couch in Berlin.

00:00:15 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, I was telling Jillian, who's here, Jillian helps Brad and I keep our lives straight, that when Brad and I raised our first fund in 2003, we traveled around the United States, mostly having people tell us the Internet was over and would never make any money. And we had to pay for all of our travel, so we used to share a hotel room. So this is really not that close. Okay, it's back to the rooms, yeah? Two beds.

00:00:43 [SPEAKER_3]
Back to the roots, nice. All right, so a quick warm-up question for both of you. Fred, your Wikipedia article calls you sort of a VC with celebrity status. Is that what it says? That's what it says. So you didn't edit it. That's good. And researching it a little bit longer, on Quora, people ask the most random questions like, is there a personality cult around Fred Wilson? Or the best one I found was, does Fred Wilson sleep? So how did you become sort of the Chuck Norris of the venture capital industry?

00:01:17 [SPEAKER_1]
I think it comes from the blog. It comes from writing the blog and just putting ideas out there every day. And, you know, I think everybody's got a voracious appetite. Everybody in this business has a voracious appetite for ideas. And so just by putting them out there, it's like flypaper, you know. People just want to come.

00:01:37 [SPEAKER_3]
But was it also sort of deliberate that you said, well, Fred will be the frontrunner of Union Square Ventures and he's going to be sort of building this brand for the company? No. No.

00:01:48 [Brad Burnham]
But I can actually vouch for the fact that he does not sleep either.

00:01:52 [SPEAKER_3]
Okay. So he has superpowers. Yes. Thank God. And Brad, you have sort of a different background, right? Fred actually started working at a VC pretty much after college. You had a job as a software engineer before. You, on the other hand, spent 10 years in big corporations like AT&T. I wonder, like, with this different background, is there sort of stuff that you really disagree on and sort of fight about?

00:02:20 [Brad Burnham]
You know, there's two questions there. One is, does the background create any differences in the way we look at the world? And the other is, is there stuff that we fight about? Yeah, that's true. And, you know, I don't think there's much that we, I mean, fight is the wrong word. We have this great conversation. One of the real pleasures in my life is every Monday we get together as a group and we talk about really interesting stuff, really interesting people, and really interesting opportunities. And everybody is intellectually honest and open, and interested in everybody else's perspective. And so it's just an exploration. It's not really; there's no battle going on.

00:02:58 [SPEAKER_1]
The one thing I would say is that Brad is very principled and I'm a pragmatist. And so, you know, net neutrality. Okay. You know, I would; I would take a compromise on net neutrality. And Brad's point of view is we shouldn't compromise on net neutrality. This is a principle. We have to fight for what's right here. So we have that conversation. It's not a fight, though. It's just that Brad always brings me closer to what we really believe in. And it's the same thing in investing. I would be probably a lot more, I'd probably say yes more. And Brad is always like, well. Why are we doing this? Let's make sure we understand why we're doing this before we do it. So that's the dynamic.

00:03:42 [SPEAKER_3]
And before, when we spoke briefly, Fred, you mentioned also that in the sense of this framework that you presented at LeWeb, which I found really interesting, your framework for investing at USV, you don't really go so sectorial or looking at stages or focusing on specific technologies, but you actually look at sort of the underpinning behavioral changes, right? He does.

00:04:04 [SPEAKER_1]
Okay. He does.

00:04:06 [Brad Burnham]
So you presented his ideas? No, no, no.

00:04:09 [SPEAKER_1]
I take his ideas and I make them actionable. Okay. Okay.

00:04:14 [SPEAKER_3]
So there were two of those. And you mentioned there may be a fourth one, right? You presented three of those sort of macro trends. And two of those I wanted to dive into a little bit more. So one is this sort of move from bureaucratic hierarchies to technology-driven networks, right? For the audience that hasn't seen this video, can you expand on that a little bit? Well, this is actually Brad's. Okay.

00:04:40 [SPEAKER_1]
You've got to do this.

00:04:42 [Brad Burnham]
This is your thing. I don't know. It's not my thing. It's what's happening. And so it's just a matter of sort of observing what's happening. People have talked about it as information technology and networks reducing the transaction costs for allowing information to flow more freely. And the reason we have bureaucratic hierarchies is because that was a way of organizing work. And the funny thing is we've only had them for about 150 years. You know, people think, sort of assume that companies and that kind of bureaucratic structure has always existed. No. Before that, there were very flat networks and family organizations. And then about in the late 19th century, we began to see these large-scale organizations organized as hierarchies. Well, you know, you can do a lot of things a lot more efficiently if you have frictionless communication. And that's what I think Uber and Airbnb and all of these networks are.

00:05:34 [SPEAKER_3]
What are sort of the next markets, you think, or verticals that are going to feel this disruption?

00:05:41 [Brad Burnham]
Well, you know, I mean, in retrospect, it looks pretty obvious. That media was first. And media is entirely, in this world, a digital good, so there's not a lot of friction involved. It was also entirely unregulated. When you moved into transportation or housing or finance, all of a sudden you found governments that had a real interest, and incumbents that were aware, had watched what happened to media, and said, 'I don't want that to happen in my industry,'and so they began to work with governments to prevent innovation in those spaces. So the question of what's next down the line?

00:06:15 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, everything's next, but I'm particularly interested in healthcare because I think that the healthcare system, certainly in the United States, and I suspect everywhere in the world, is a massive bureaucratic hierarchy, and that as a result we as patients aren't getting as much healthcare as we could for the cost that we spend. And I also think that that combined with the fact that these devices we're carrying on us are going to start recording lots of important information that can start to allow us to become more aware of our own issues without even having to access the healthcare system. Those two forces together seem like they're just on a collision course. And I think it's going to be, you know, the big bang that's going to happen in healthcare is going to be really interesting to watch and I think interesting to invest in.

00:07:05 [SPEAKER_3]
And as a model, sort of technology-driven networks, right, and this move from hierarchies, do you think this is sort of the ultimate model? I mean, Churchill famously said about democracy, it's the worst form of government except for the others. Is that sort of similar to the model that we're adapting right now? Is there something more? And you as VCs, I spoke to Fabian Siegel before actually about this, and he said he also wonders whether you already have to think about the next wave, right? So do you think about that? What will come after technology-driven networks?

00:07:41 [Brad Burnham]
So we spend a lot of time thinking about that. And we do, every once in a while, step back and think about the end of history argument. Have we reached the maximal efficiency that we can imagine? And I think that The other thing about us is we've never looked at it as a technology. We don't invest in technology. We invest in what technology enables. And so if I was to try and predict what is going to be interesting next, I would be looking at a change in the way we think about ownership of data. And the reason for that is that if you think about a challenge like healthcare or any of the networks that we see today, and sort of the network effect defensibility of a company like Facebook, that's all about where data is owned and how it's controlled. And if data isn't somehow if we rethink ownership of it and people who create it, people who interact with these systems actually end up in control of their own data, it's going to fundamentally change what has been the defensibility in these big networks. And it's going to lead to a larger number of smaller companies interacting on open protocols in a very interesting way. And it's not going to change. It's going to flatten hierarchies a little bit, but Facebook's hierarchy, the new incumbent's hierarchy. But that's where we'd look right now.

00:09:15 [SPEAKER_3]
I think we're going to go back to this when we talk about Bitcoin and sort of the blockchain in terms of identity in a moment. I just wanted to talk about the second big macro trend, unbundling. And maybe Fred, you can answer this. We've obviously seen this in the media industry, newspapers unbundling into very specific portals, vertical portals, special interest portals, as well as classified marketplaces and so forth. Is this always necessary? Facebook's unbundling doesn't seem to be so fruitful at this stage. Is it necessary for Facebook to do that?

00:09:55 [SPEAKER_1]
You might be mixing. Your metaphor is a little bit, like the way we think about unbundling is the unbundling of what has been a holistic business unit in the past. So the unbundling of the bank, for example. We see that happening very much now in, certainly in the United States and maybe all around the world. It's now possible to deliver a specific service like consumer lending, like our portfolio company Lending Club does, without being in the business of handling deposits and without being in the business of doing all the other things that big banks do. So I think more likely the unbundling of the hospital, the unbundling of the insurance company, the unbundling of the bank, the unbundling of the car company, the unbundling of the airplane company. That's more the way we think about unbundling. What Facebook is doing, taking a monolithic app and breaking it into lots of little apps, I think that's also a trend, but I'm not sure it's coming from the same place.

00:11:02 [SPEAKER_3]
And that may be a cycle also, right? If you look at music, for example, that started with 45s, two songs, then sort of bundled into LPs and CDs, then sort of again unbundled into MP3 and Napster, and now is rebundling into Pandora and Spotify and these likes. How do you see that with Spotify going from sort of a music-focused platform to an audio platform?

00:11:29 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, it seems to me that audio is what stitches it all together. So I kind of feel like that's inevitable, right? I mean, if you look at YouTube, for example, YouTube doesn't try to define what kind of video it's allowing. It's just video, right? So it's the media type as opposed to the specific kind of media. I think what we've seen with media, as Brad talked about, the media is the first sector that really saw networks replace hierarchies. And what we've seen with media is that these networks have typically built themselves up around a particular kind of media type. So a video, an audio, short-form text, long-form text, or something like that. So I think that Spotify is just following their natural path.

00:12:25 [Brad Burnham]
The three examples of unbundling, an insurance company, Facebook, and the tracks on an album versus a single, have very different dynamics underneath them. I don't think they're comparable at all. If you look at the insurance company, the reason for the bundling has a lot to do with scale economies that in some cases are driven by the way things are regulated and by the cost of regulation and things like that. Facebook's choice to bundle or unbundle is really about consumer experience and brands and things like that. And the music is really just a packaging and the way you consume it. So if you're trying to find a common thread underneath that and sort of to try and say it's always going to be going in and out, I don't think you could do that. I think you have to look one layer deeper.

00:13:12 [SPEAKER_3]
And what will be the fourth megatrend you mentioned to me?

00:13:16 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, I thought you were talking about the three sectors that I said we were interested in investing in at the end of my talk, which was healthcare, the unbundling of healthcare, or the consumerization of healthcare might be a better way to put it, blockchain. And new ways to think about identity. And the fourth area that I'm quite excited about is mesh networking. And, interestingly enough, Brad's the only person in our firm who's had the courage to make a networking investment. But I think we're all quite excited about that. And we've been looking for ways to erase the last mile monopolies and duopolies that exist in wireless and wireline, particularly in the United States, and I think it's true in many countries around the world, mesh networking to us seems like possibly the most promising of all of those. And so we are quite interested in that.

00:14:13 [SPEAKER_3]
Can you explain maybe some interesting use cases you've seen?

00:14:16 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, so yesterday, a company that we invested in earlier this year called Venium announced the investment that we made. They're a company based in Porto, Portugal, although the team is now, certainly the CEO and a couple of other founders have moved to Silicon Valley. And what they've built is it's Brad's investment. I don't know why I'm explaining it, but I'm going to keep going. They have built essentially a little device that we would think of as a wireless access point that uses a slightly different protocol, wireless protocol, but it's still based on a standard, an open standard, that they put in the backs of buses and taxis and garbage trucks. And as these vehicles drive around Porto, they're meshing with each other all day long. And not only are they providing internet into these vehicles, They're also provisioning a big Wi-Fi mesh throughout the entire city of Porto. That's a pretty cool idea.

00:15:18 [Brad Burnham]
So think about it. Every single one of those devices has a battery and has a way of recharging that battery. So the problem we have with all these devices that we carry around, if we opened our devices up as meshes and let everybody else in the world use them, the battery wouldn't last. But these devices are constantly moving, constantly recharging their batteries. So it's kind of cool. It's an interesting platform. It's a kind of clever hack in a way because they're using this protocol called 802.11p, which is actually designed for vehicle-to-vehicle transmissions. It's part of the thinking around autonomous cars.and things like that, but there's no prescription about using it solely for that reason, and it has some really cool characteristics like very fast switching time so that you can have cars moving by each other and actually sharing transmissions and sharing the mesh and still keeping the mesh up, and they've actually done demos where they've had live video chats in buses that they can maintain for miles. It's kind of cool.

00:16:14 [SPEAKER_3]
Another sort of thing I guess you guys are fascinated with is Bitcoin and the underlying protocol, the blockchain. Who in this audience, because I'm not sure how well received that is in Berlin, who in this audience, hands up, if you believe in the future of cryptocurrencies? If you don't believe in the future, hands up. Okay, and the rest doesn't believe in any future, maybe. Okay, there's one person there. They just don't know yet. They're not willing to go online. I mean, this is something that I think in the US is a much bigger theme already than here in Europe. Can you maybe explain your fascination with it and where could it lead to?

00:16:51 [SPEAKER_1]
I think it starts with the blockchain. We see Bitcoin as an application that's built on top of the blockchain. And we think there are going to be lots of applications that are built on top of the blockchain. Our colleague, Joel, wrote a blog post last week where he outlined the blockchain stack. And for all of you who are tech people, you're used to looking at stacks and understanding how technology layers on top of them. And so I would encourage you to go look at that. You can get it. I link to it off of my blog at ABC. So if you went to ABC and searched for the blockchain stack, you'd get to a post I wrote and then to his underlying post. But in any case, what he describes in that post is an architecture That realizes the vision that Brad was talking about which is a data layer, a common data layer across applications that's not controlled by these silos; the best way to think about it is: Today if you use Gmail You could decide to go to a different mail client and all of your mail would show up and all of your email addresses would show up and You'd have a different UI, but you wouldn't have anything else different. That's not true with Facebook. It's not true with Twitter. It's not true with almost any other application you might use. If all applications were built on top of this blockchain stack, you would take your keys, and you would leave Yammer, and you would go to Slack, and instantly everything that you had on Yammer would be in Slack. You would just take your key, your private key, and you would just join another application. Everything would come with you. And we think that's really powerful. And a lot of people say, what's the incentive to do that? I think the incentive to do that is that when people start to have, when end users start to have these experiences, and you can already have that experience with Bitcoin, where if you use a Bitcoin wallet like Coinbase and you decide to move to a Bitcoin wallet like Blockchain, That's just the way the world works. And as people see more and more of this in their lives, they're going to say, I want that with everything. I want that with my concert tickets, and I want that with my banking relationship, and I want that with everything. So we think that this is a big deal. I'm not saying it's going to happen in two years or five years, but I think if we look out ten years, it feels to us like this is a very big and important change.

00:19:18 [Brad Burnham]
If you're looking at it as a currency, you're looking at it the wrong way. And it's interesting, but it's a very simple, single implementation of what's possible with the technology. If you think about Airbnb and what Airbnb did to the hotel industry, they basically recognized that there were all these assets out there-spare bedrooms that could be linked together on a network and replicate the functionality of a hotel with none of the cost. How's that going to happen with Facebook? When we begin to feel constrained by Facebook, either because it's not evolving fast enough or because we feel as if we're locked in and we want to have more control over our data, how's that going to happen? Well, it's going to happen because people are going to rethink the nature of data ownership. And the interesting thing about data, is that it's not like an apple. If I have an apple, You cannot have the same Apple, right? But I can have a piece of data and you can have a piece of data. So it's not about who controls it or who has it in their possession. It's about who has access to it. And if the data is written to the blockchain and you have access to it and you can move from one platform to another or you can federate your identity across multiple platforms, you have a whole lot more control over who you are and how you represent yourself online and what services you have. And the really cool thing is that it creates this enormous opportunity for new innovation because now you've reduced the barrier of entry, which used to be tech and then it was scale and now it's network effects.

00:20:50 [SPEAKER_1]
The really weird thing about being in the venture business is we back entrepreneurs who want to go into a market and disrupt an existing incumbent, right? And then 10 years later, they're the new incumbent, right? And we look at it and we say, 'Damn,'we helped those people do the same thing that the people that we financed them to do had done before them. It's kind of a weird thing to think about.

00:21:16 [SPEAKER_3]
So you're not so bullish on Facebook anymore? The guardian of identity in our time.

00:21:21 [Brad Burnham]
From my perspective, Facebook's just not interesting. As Fred said, if you want to predict the timing of the adoption of this data model in the blockchain, boy, that'd be really, really hard to do. So I'm not going to short Facebook because I don't know how to time that. But if I wanted to think about ways to create new opportunities to invest and if I wanted to anticipate, if you think, you go all the way back to the 90s and you think about how dominant Microsoft was and how they were able to basically suck the entire PC software industry into their stack, and the mechanism that they used to do that. You can kind of see some of the same playbook being played out now by the new incumbents, the dominant incumbents. But if you think about what undid Microsoft, it was a shift in venue from the desktop to the web, and it was a shift in business model from packaged software to open source. And those two things, we don't think about Microsoft as this big scary giant right now, right? So what's going to undo? The existing, the new incumbents, Facebook, Apple, Google, Amazon. You know, if I had to guess, I would look at the way we think about data.

00:22:39 [SPEAKER_3]
Where are we in the sort of life cycle of the sharing economy right now? What's sort of the status, you'd say?

00:22:45 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, you know, that's a loaded word. It's hard to, you know, sharing economy. You know, there was this survey done in New York City by the New York State Attorney General, and it turned out that a huge amount of the apartments that were being rented on Airbnb were professionals who had either already owned the apartments or had purchased the apartments and were effectively running businesses on top of Airbnb. So, is that sharing? I don't think that's sharing. And I'm not arguing against Airbnb. I think Airbnb is a great company. No beef with Airbnb. But the term 'sharing economy'is kind of, I think, a misnomer. I think what Brad described it as just sort of an unbundling of a lot of these businesses, an unbundling of the taxi and limousine commission, which is Uber, or the unbundling of the Hyatt hotel chain, Airbnb. I'm not sure how much sharing is really going on right now.

00:23:48 [Brad Burnham]
So, you know, I usually try and use the word peer economy, but Fred's just said something that's given me some pause about even using the word peer economy because in that example of Eric Schneider's work, that, you know, clearly it's not peers, you know, it's professionals who are creating the equivalent of a new form. It's not a bureaucratic hierarchy, but it's more efficient than an existing hotel, but it's using the platform to create scale. And so if I had to answer the question about the stage, the thing that's really interesting about the peer economy or these network platforms today is that, I think their biggest problem, and I can say this a little bit because we're investors in a number of the financial services ones, but we're not in Airbnb or Uber, is that they basically don't create anything, right? They create the environment within which the drivers and the passengers create value or the guests and the hosts create value, right? So they're just a platform for the creation of value for the endpoints. Well, when you add a third player to the mix, the stockholder, and that's us, by the way. I mean, that's what we do for a living. But you add that third player, and you then value the company at $40 billion. Right now, Uber, as an example, takes 27% of every ride, right? Well, they're going to have to take more than 27% of every ride if they're going to pay off that $47 billion valuation, right? I think that where we are in the development of the sharing economy is we're just beginning to create the opportunity for people to come in underneath. And the question again comes back to what prevents somebody from coming in underneath and it brings you back to data and who controls it.

00:25:35 [SPEAKER_3]
Another two short questions on sort of the macro. We're going macro to micro, basically. We'll then go speak a bit about ecosystems and finally about companies and more personal point of views. Elon Musk says the greatest threat to humankind is artificial intelligence. I don't know if you read it, but yesterday Stephen Hawking actually joined him in that perception.

00:25:55 [SPEAKER_1]
What's your sort of very personal take on that? I haven't thought too much about this issue. I know it's a very important topic and people think a lot about it. Maybe Brad has an opinion. I don't know. I feel like I get more benefit out of artificial intelligence. I'm not personally threatened by it.

00:26:15 [Brad Burnham]
This is actually an area where we do have a fight. It's not between Fred and I. It's between Albert and I. Albert's another partner of ours. German. Albert believes in Albert Wenger. Pessimistic? No, no, he's the one who, well, maybe that is pessimistic. He believes in the singularity. He believes there was a moment when machines will be smarter than humans. I believe that humans are essentially the culmination of a billion years of evolution, and you cannot replicate that. Even if you can replicate the circuitry, I think it's going to be very, very hard to replicate it. So we have that debate. I don't know if any of us will get any closer to the answer.

00:26:56 [SPEAKER_3]
Well, in honor of Albert, then one final question on the NSA scandal, which Germans took maybe more note of, it felt, than maybe in other parts of the world. I'm not sure about this, but generally I thought, that's my personal perception, that the tech community is outraged. Was rather soft. And I wonder if that is maybe a form of self-censorship already. I mean, my feed now, if I look at my Facebook feed, it's full of Ferguson, it's full of so many political incidents and events. NSA's gnome wasn't really a big part of my feed at any time. But that may be my personal sort of filter bubble.

00:27:36 [SPEAKER_1]
I think you are looking at your Facebook feed as a representation of what matters, and that's a huge mistake.

00:27:43 [SPEAKER_3]
Touché. Touché. Touche. But I did mean sort of the tech environment, right?

00:27:52 [SPEAKER_1]
I think the big tech companies are very conflicted on this stuff. But I think if you talk to rank and file people in the tech world, I think it's pretty universal that they are unhappy with the fact that the US government is effectively spying on the citizens of the United States.

00:28:15 [Brad Burnham]
Tech companies are in a tough spot because they're also spying on the citizens of the world, right? And they would argue that they're more benign, they can't put you in jail, they have a consensual relationship, you participate, they're not sneaking up on you, they're not cracking open back doors, they're not doing the things that the government might be doing, but they are looking at what you're doing and they're using that data. And so that's a, you know, they, They're walking a fine line. They've got to either sort of keep a low profile on the issue or they've got to make this distinction, and it's a tough distinction to make.

00:28:55 [SPEAKER_1]
I actually think that there is a group of people in the tech community who care so much about this issue that they are building technology, to protect themselves and anybody, and it's mostly open source, to protect themselves and anybody else who wants to avail themselves of it from these threats. And I think that that's exactly how the tech community should respond to this. Posting about, I don’t want to get on your case, I don’t mean to be negative about it, but actions are more powerful than words. I don’t mean that either, I guess, because there’s some very important words that have been spoken by leaders around the world. But to just say that you’re unhappy with the U. S.government spying on you doesn’t do much. But if you do something about it, I think that has deep power.

00:29:45 [Brad Burnham]
So maybe we can get a disagreement going here. I worry that we're giving up the possibility of collective intelligence. So one of the companies that we're-Well, like with crypto. Well, if we go dark, if we use all these tools and everybody becomes an island and everybody becomes unidentifiable in the stream, one of our portfolio companies is a company called Duolingo. It's a language learning site, and they-look at every single click that you make as you interact with the site, and they do it in order to be able to optimize your experience and optimize your learning. They identify a learning style. They find out what works for other people, the same kind of learning style. They present that stuff to you, and you learn more quickly. They can also do really cool stuff like they can take the TOEFL, the English language test, and it takes two hours, and they can shrink it to 20 minutes because they adapt. They immediately see how you're reacting, and they can adapt. They can find your level very quickly. That's good stuff, right? And if you then broaden that and talk about how the kinds of things that we can do when we share intelligence. I had a really funny conversation with a woman who runs security and privacy for the Health and Human Services Administration in the US. And I said, 'I want to be a data donor.'I have a card in my wallet that says you can have my eyeballs and my lungs and everything else. You can have my data. I want to be a data donor because I think if you see my data and you put it collectively together with other people's data, we'll identify patterns. We'll be able to solve problems.

00:31:15 [SPEAKER_1]
We don't have to wait until you die for that. We can start benefiting from that while you're still alive. That's true. Exactly.

00:31:23 [Brad Burnham]
How do we, so it comes back to what I think is the essential problem, and I'm sorry because we've kind of come back to this theme about data and our relationship to data more than we maybe should, except it's the most important thing that we're thinking about. And it says, how do we get the benefits of collective intelligence and the personal sense of autonomy and control over our data? That's the problem that we have to, that's the problem that everybody in this room should, I think, take some responsibility for trying to figure out.

00:31:51 [SPEAKER_3]
Speaking now about ecosystems, I saw a really interesting chart, basically compared the market cap of Apple, Google, Facebook and Amazon to the DAX 30 market caps, which includes companies like Deutsche Bank, of course, BMW, Volkswagen, Bayer, BASF, Allianz, a lot of household global brand names. The market cap of those four companies is actually larger than the combined market cap of the DAX 30. Why do you think that here in Germany or in Europe, we haven't been able to create a real technological juggernaut? Want to take a stab at that?

00:32:34 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, you know, Silicon Valley is, as an ecosystem, been around since the 60s. It's 50 years old. And what we see If you study the data, what you can see is it's a system that builds on top of itself. A company gets started, gets big, goes public, gets sold, a lot of wealth is made, a lot of expertise, a lot of knowledge happens. It's like a tree that plants seeds, and then those seeds grow, and these things happen over generations. Obviously, Amazon's not in Silicon Valley, but we have lots of really important companies coming out of that model. I think that most of the rest of the world, including most of the rest of the United States, hasn't really adapted to that model of company formation, value creation, innovation. I think a lot of companies are becoming big and bureaucratic and not innovative. And in the U. S., there's a system for, you know, creating new companies, and it works very well. I think a lot of the world is waking up to that. China, I think, is a great example of a country that has adopted this system, you know, maybe 15 or 20 years ago, and they have now very large. I mean, it would be interesting to take a look at. Here's an interesting thing to do: Let's take the four biggest. Internet companies in China and look at their market caps compared to Apple, Google, Facebook, and Amazon, it probably isn't very different. Four to four, right? And they're probably both bigger than the DAX. So I think China has the benefit of this massive domestic market and a protective environment around their country so you can't go in and compete with local companies. But in any case, I think we just have to, the rest of the world has to start to implement this model.

00:34:39 [SPEAKER_3]
But what do we need most of? Do we lack talent? Do we lack funding in later series? Do we not think about the right ideas in terms of technology networks? What is it that we need? Is it really an ecosystem with all these different parts that is missing?

00:34:57 [Brad Burnham]
I think that, so, when we raised our first fund, we said we wanted to invest in the applications of the layer of the web, and we wanted to do it in New York. And neither of those things were a good idea when you were trying to raise money from people. It turned out to be a good idea in both cases. And New York is perhaps ahead of Berlin. It's certainly behind Silicon Valley in terms of its ability to create companies. But we have a generation of people who have succeeded and failed in New York in the Web 1.0 era who came back to the market. The successful people funded a number of companies and supported their development. You now have the first generation of success here in Berlin. You have some examples of that. I think there's still a little bit of a cultural concern around failure that doesn't exist as much in the U. S.and I think I've heard lots of examples where people are getting over that. People recognize that some of the most valuable people in the world have been pre-failed, really good product people but they were in the wrong situation and you can pick them up. Those people get employed really quickly. That's a different attitude, but I also, by the way, I would like to believe that the companies that you mentioned, not the DAX 30, but the Internet 4 or whatever. I would like to believe that it's going to be harder and harder to create companies at that scale that will end up with, in a more open environment, will end up with a larger number of smaller companies and a more vibrant innovation environment. And so maybe we're not, aspiring to that may not even be the right thing to do. Maybe the Mittelstadt for the tech world is the right place to be.

00:36:50 [SPEAKER_3]
And what roles can and should governments and corporates play? Fred, you famously said that you never want to work with a corporate VC again, ever, ever, ever, and maybe three or more times ever, you said, because they suck.

00:37:02 [SPEAKER_1]
Yeah, they do largely suck, but the reality is I can't avoid them. They are an important part of the market that we invest in. I think it's just better for companies to buy companies into it. Like for a big company, I don't really understand why they invest in companies. It doesn't do anything for them. Buy the company. If you think this is a company that is doing something strategic and important to your business, buy it. If not, don't. That seems to me to be what the corporation should do. Governments can do a lot, but usually that involves by doing less, by making the environment the appropriate environment. I love what Mike Bloomberg, a former mayor of New York, used to say about his attitude about economic and development in New York. Someone would say to the mayor, 'What do we need to do in New York to make New York develop economically?'He'd say, 'Transportation, schools, parks, police, fire.'Just make this a great place to live, and everything else will take care of itself. I love that idea. Government should be the enabler of an environment for a place that talented people want to come and work, and they should not be trying to pick winners, they should not be trying to create overly complicated financial structures, they should not be messing around with taxes or any of that kind of stuff.

00:38:29 [SPEAKER_3]
Invest in VCs?40% of all the funds pumped into European VCs is coming from state-backed sources. That's incredible, right?

00:38:37 [SPEAKER_1]
That seems to me to be a market failure. For some reason, the capital that is here in Europe going into venture capital firms, and as a result, the governments feel like they need to fill that gap that I don't think that's the right answer long term. The right answer would be that the capital that exists in Europe should be going to work...

00:39:03 [Brad Burnham]
yeah, it's worse if In exchange for the money, the government asks for certain things, like the company has to be based here, it has to be done in a certain way. Then it starts to really mess with the ecosystem. If it's just money, I mean, we have money from pension funds that are essentially public pension funds. That's, in some sense, government money. But they're first and foremost investors, and they want a return on that investment, and they're not giving us any advice on where to put it.

00:39:36 [SPEAKER_3]
How do you see the competence of Europe in scaling companies internationally? I found that a lot of American companies take some years until they open first offices in other markets, and then we have the incubators, rocket internets of this world, especially here in Berlin, that go very fast when it comes to scaling internationally. What's my take on that competence? Are I short or long on Rocket Internet stock?

00:40:04 [SPEAKER_1]
I wouldn't touch it with a 10-foot pole because I don't believe in their business model. And I think that they're actually ciphers. I think they're bad actors in the system. I don't like them in the least. But I think it's important for a company to make sure that they have product-market fit and understand how to scale their business before they get too aggressive with international expansion. I know that companies that are based in Europe, and particularly companies that are based in the smaller countries in Europe, cannot build enough of a business in their domestic market, so they have to go international quickly. And we see a lot of our European portfolio companies coming to the US for that reason, and I totally understand that. We support that. We help them do that. But I don’t think that international expansion should come too quickly because it puts a lot of strain on the organization, and it’s important to have everything else working right before you do that.

00:41:08 [Brad Burnham]
There’s a nuance there, and that is there's a huge difference between a company like an Airbnb or an Uber and a company like Tumblr. I was on the board of Tumblr. Tumblr had this phenomenon in Indonesia where it all of a sudden became one of the fastest-growing countries, and they had nobody on the ground there. They didn’t know who was doing that. They didn’t know why it was happening. Tumblr all of a sudden becomes global. When they begin to sell something globally, then they have to have local salespeople, they have to understand the culture, they have to understand the rules, the regulations, all that stuff. If you're a company like an Airbnb or an Uber, you're pretty quickly, you have to figure out what's happening in each of those markets, and you have to treat them all separately. That's a much harder problem, and that's the problem Fred's talking about, being careful about.

00:42:03 [SPEAKER_3]
And we reached sort of the final part, the more personal and company-centric part. Guys, just two, three more questions, and then you guys have all the questions to ask. In an interview with Business Insider, you said that in 2012, you spent a lot of time with companies that you kind of knew they were already doomed. And I think this is a question, speaking to entrepreneurs here in Berlin, that I get a lot. It's like, when do you know, you as a VC or as an entrepreneur that you've seen, when you can still pivot or what you call grind it? And when is it just over and done?

00:42:40 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, it's over and done when you run out of money and nobody's willing to give you another. That's when it's over and done. Or when you decide that you're done. You know, I hate, and I never tell entrepreneurs, you're not going to make it. Because, you know, I will tell them things like, this isn't working very well. You need to rethink what you're doing here. Or if we keep going in this direction, we're going to run out of money and no one's going to give us more. So you can be, you know, you can kind of communicate some of the concerns, but the minute you tell an entrepreneur that you think they're going to fail, your relationship, it's like, my wife's here in the audience, I hate even saying this, but it would be like saying to your wife, you know, like, you know, this isn't working or something. Like, you can't go backwards from that conversation. So I think it's, something that you've got to be really careful as an investor. You've got to be supportive, but critical at the same time. And usually we let the money, the market dictate when these companies are out of money. We don't try to force it on them.

00:43:53 [Brad Burnham]
I want to say one thing on this, which is I've been working with an entrepreneur in New York who has now pivoted three times and has just now found his footing and is hitting the ball out of the park. Sorry, that's not a football analogy. Kicking the ball out of the park?

00:44:12 [SPEAKER_1]
Kicking the ball, yeah.

00:44:13 [Brad Burnham]
Through the net? Through the net. Sorry, Lucas. You know, he's doing fantastically well. And he did one thing, and it's the hardest thing that I've ever, ever, ever seen an entrepreneur do. And that is making a decision while he had money in the bank to completely change his business. And that meant laying off a large number of people. It meant shrinking down. It meant, you know, really stepping back and looking at what he was doing and deciding to do something differently. He did it. Three times. And it's so much more common to have an entrepreneur come to you and say, 'I'm out of money.'What do I do? It's way too late.

00:44:56 [SPEAKER_3]
What are the most common mistakes that you've seen over the years entrepreneurs do?

00:45:00 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, I think the failure to find product market fit is the thing. Everything else could be fixable. I'm not saying it will be fixed, but everything else could be fixed. But if you can't build a product that people want to use that solves the problem you're trying to solve, then you don't have anything to go on. And I see a lot of companies, they're going to build a consumer-facing product. So they ship a product, and nobody's using it. And so they're like, oh, well, we could sell this to the enterprise. And so they pivot, and all of a sudden, it's the same product, but it's now being sold to the enterprise. It's denial. They're trying to find a customer for this shit that they built. And they can't recognize that it's shit. And that's the thing.

00:45:53 [SPEAKER_3]
And you also said at one point that sort of in an early stage of your business, decisions should be sort of very hunch-driven. And at a later stage, more data-driven, right? How as a VC?

00:46:06 [SPEAKER_1]
What I meant by that was it's hard to get a product into the market that's a good product using data. What data? You know? What's going to tell you what to build? The best entrepreneurs, they just, they have something inside of them that says, this is it, the market needs this. They build it, they get to some level of product market fit. Then from there, you can use data to help you determine what your roadmap should be and where to take the product.

00:46:37 [SPEAKER_3]
So that's what I meant by it. How does data as an early stage investor, I mean, you guys are not that early, right? But for an angel investor, for example, these tools like Mattermark that are popping up now, using data and sort of trying to quantify the potential outcome in early stage investing and sort of company's potential. How do you see these services?

00:47:00 [Brad Burnham]
Well, there's also a lot of people who are trying to create tools that track app store downloads and look for momentum. To quote Fred, I think they're shit. And the reason for that is that I think all that can do is tell you what's already happening. And you can't differentiate. Anybody can get access to that data. And if somebody's got better tools to get access to that data, They're not necessarily going to be a very good partner on a board and help you build a company. I mean, the question is, why are you doing what you're doing? Why is it working? And if you have a theory about why it's working, then you probably already identified those companies before the data shows. Got it.

00:47:44 [SPEAKER_1]
Yeah, there's nothing defensible in that model, even if it works. And we've tried it. I mean, Albert, our partner, has been very interested in this for a long time. And we've hacked a lot of stuff together at USV. First of all, the data isn't that conclusive. And second of all, you can get head-faked by it. And ultimately, you still have to, even when you find a company that looks like it's accelerating, you have them come in, we still have the conversation that Brad just had, which is, well, why is this working? And if we can't understand why it's working, then we're still not going to make the investment. Brad and I share this point of view that that's not necessarily the best way to go about making investments.

00:48:32 [SPEAKER_3]
All right, great, guys. Let's open up. The value is in the audience. So we have mics somewhere. I don't know. Is Jacopo running around with mics? Can you maybe just pass the mic then to the people? That would be awesome. So anybody with a question for Fred and Brad?

00:48:53 [SPEAKER_1]
Just so people know, we're a little bit blinded by these lights. It's a little hard to see you all.

00:48:59 [SPEAKER_9]
State your name. Great. So, been following the blockchain. Totally agree with you guys on the trends. And I think the focus on decentralization as opposed to possession is really interesting. What do you think of some of the sidechain activities and some of these variations that are happening? I guess Ethereum was mentioned. It's like, you know, out of Switzerland, so it's kind of close to home here, and then I think Adam Bach is working on a new sidechain project as well, like do you think that there's going to be continued innovation or is the Bitcoin protocol set in stone, and things need to be built on top of that.

00:49:34 [SPEAKER_1]
So, I mentioned that our colleague Joel published something called 'The Blockchain Stack'and what he has convinced us, and I think it's important to recognize that Joel is half of our age? No, a third of our age. What he's convinced us is that those things that you just talked about are going to be built on top of the Bitcoin blockchain. And he calls them overlay networks. And that's what's going to happen is that we're still going to use the Bitcoin blockchain. For the basic ledger, if you will, and that the mining is going to happen on the Bitcoin blockchain because that's where all the liquidity and that's where all the mining activity is. And it's unlikely that anybody could replicate the network effects that have already been built up there. So the things like Ethereum and side chains and colored coins and Counterparty and MasterCoin, they're all going to evolve into overlay networks that are going to exist on top of the Bitcoin blockchain. That makes sense to us. It also makes sense to us that you can't really change the core Bitcoin protocol very much because so much is riding on it now, that the right thing to do is to build on top of that to add value to that protocol. So, that's how we see it.

00:50:54 [SPEAKER_3]
Any other questions?

00:50:55 [SPEAKER_6]
I just wanted to come back to the privacy and security point. If so many people in the tech industry in North America are so concerned about it. Why don't they come to Europe to build companies where the environment is much more, especially in Germany, and I say this as a Brit, where UK maybe not so much, but the atmosphere in Germany, in Europe as a whole, is much more pro-building things that are private and secure.

00:51:20 [Brad Burnham]
So I would actually You know, the U. S., we have a tendency to be skeptical of government and believe in companies. In Europe, they tend to be skeptical of companies and believe in government, right? Government and companies can both fuck up an environment, right? And so I think that some of the stuff that's happening in Germany is absolutely insane. And in Europe broadly, in terms of what rights and data, it's trying to bring a conception of property rights to data that don't make any sense, given the difference in the nature of data. And it makes perfect sense that that's what people would do, because that's where their experience base is, that's what all the laws talk about and stuff like that. And, you know, I think a lot of what's happening in Europe is being driven by a sense of having been colonized by a bunch of Silicon Valley companies, which I respect and I understand that's a problem. But, you know, I think that I don't think there's anything particularly better about right now building in Europe versus building in the US when it comes to a better conceptualization of what data is and what individuals'rights are in that data. And I think this is a problem. We actually both have to come together. We have to learn to be more skeptical about the nature of market power and the nature of private corporate power, and I think Europeans have to be more skeptical about the unintended consequences of well-intentioned regulation coming from the public side.

00:53:00 [SPEAKER_3]
We'll get you the mic because then we have it on video. Thank you, guys.

00:53:05 [SPEAKER_4]
Okay. So, you know, there's a lot of competition on the market, and you're speaking about open sourcing, right? So basically we're speaking about a lot of companies who are facilitators of aggregating offer and demand. Offer and demand, well, demands and yeah, I'm right. And so you have, you were speaking about data as well. And so you have examples like Snowden, you know, consulting for WhatsApp for their Android app. And you have Ello, that's kind of a.like a social network, but a little bit really secure. Not secure, but you know it. And so your job, you have a commission, you're saying, and these companies that have power from data, they're losing it. And you were saying there's this shift. How do you see that these companies that do lose this power can exist? Did I make sense?

00:54:11 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, I think the companies that are likely to lose the power over time are the incumbents, the Facebooks, the Googles of the world. And I think it will happen slowly. I don't think it will happen quickly. I mean, I don't think that there's going to be some watershed moment in the middle of 2015 where all of a sudden we're going to see their dominance start to wane. And I think it'll probably, you'll start to see it when you see new services emerge that people really adopt and start using. And many of the companies that you mentioned or open source projects you mentioned actually haven't been successful. So maybe they weren't architected properly. Maybe they're not solving a problem that people care about yet. Sometimes timing is important. When the right product comes to the market at the right time. We may be preaching about a moment that's five or ten years away.

00:55:14 [Brad Burnham]
So one of the things that we've done as a firm, and Fred has been obviously the person that's created the most here, is we've been very open about all of our ideas. And we have these conversations amongst ourselves. But then everybody in the room, with me as the possible exception, goes out and blogs about those conversations that we're having in our partners'meetings. And our limited partners come to us and say, 'What the hell are you doing?'That's a proprietary asset that you guys control, and you're putting it out there in the market for everybody. And we think that what happens as a result is we get into conversations like this, and we get into conversations with the smart people who aren't in the room, and there are always more smart people outside the room than there are inside the room. So that's all by way of saying that there was an assumption embedded in your question that you have to control something in order to be able to exploit it or make profit from it. I would rather think about it in terms of being at the front end of the flow. If you can just be in the flow and you can be exposed to ideas more quickly as a company or as a venture firm or as an individual, you will do better. And it doesn't mean that you have to control it.

00:56:30 [SPEAKER_5]
Hi, I have a question. Two questions, actually. First is, London or Berlin? It's just a clear question. And then the second question is, you obviously made an investment in one football app recently, or about a year ago, two years ago. And you've made a number of investments in London, Halo. Can you talk a little bit about Berlin? So we're in Berlin, and a lot of the companies here are thinking about investment opportunities. Talk a little bit about what perhaps you're looking for, and yeah. What the opportunities are for potential Berlin startups that might want an investment from USV?

00:57:08 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, I hesitate to say London versus Berlin because we invest in both cities. But what I will say is I think they're very different cities. I think that in Berlin, you have what I feel like is a more sort of grassroots, gritty kind of tech-heavy, lower-cost, leaner kind of mindset about starting and building companies. Berlin's a lot less expensive to live in. It's got a younger, I feel, highly creative talent pool here. London is a more established market.probably more executive talent there, but it's a very expensive place to live. And for certain kinds of things, financial services, for example, maybe media, London would be a more logical place to start a company because of all of the talent that exists in those industries. But if you were going to build something that was kind of a new kind of business that didn't exist before, Berlin might be a great place to do that. So I think they're different.but both have strengths and weaknesses, and we, like I said, are happy to invest in both markets.

00:58:28 [Brad Burnham]
I think there's one thing that Berlin could use more of, and that is young, technically savvy venture capitalists and who control their own deals. So I have a sense that there's a number of firms that are European firms. They tend not to be headquartered in Berlin, but they have a couple of young scouts in Berlin. But those scouts take these really interesting deals back to a firm that's saying, well, where's the revenue? And it's hard to get those deals done. And I would just encourage all of you to encourage anybody who's in that position to to get their own fund off the ground so that you can have some local venture capital run by young people who understand the technology that you guys are building.

00:59:16 [SPEAKER_8]
Hey guys, lots of interesting stuff about the future, but looking back, what was the investment that you missed that you wish you hadn't?

00:59:28 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, I wrote about this. There's lots of them, by the way. I could go on for hours about this. The one I wrote about was Airbnb, and the reason I wrote about it was that the reason we missed it, to me, was very instructive, and I wanted to share it with people. We could not imagine that they could move upmarket the way they did. When we met with them, it was literally people sleeping on air mattresses in people's living rooms, and that's what it was. Didn't want to invest in that, we didn't understand that what they were really building was a marketplace that would ultimately move to Bedrooms and ultimately move to full homes, and that it could in time, you know, effectively replace staying in hotels for many people, so we missed that one.

01:00:23 [Brad Burnham]
We made one other mistake there, which was that I at least put myself in the position of sleeping on that air mattress and said, 'I'm not going to do this. Why is anybody going to do this?'And that's a really, really common venture capital mistake to think that you're the customer and to put yourself in the position of being the customer. Try not to make that mistake again.

01:00:46 [SPEAKER_3]
All right. I think one or two more questions. Unless you guys feel like you want to go on forever, well, I'd rather work the crowd a little bit, you know. So final question, anybody? And then Fred and Brad will stick around so you can obviously approach these guys. They'll be here for some more time.

01:01:08 [SPEAKER_7]
I would like to know as an entrepreneur starting that early and being so innovative, I would like to know what do you think of AI and are you someone investing in that?

01:01:20 [SPEAKER_1]
I would like to think that we, as Brad said earlier, we don't like to invest in technologies. We like to invest in things that are enabled by technology. So I think we would be very excited about investing in a business that was making something possible that everybody would want, and using AI as a tool or the tool to make that happen. But if someone came to us and said, 'I built the next great AI engine', I don't think we'd invest in that.

01:01:49 [SPEAKER_3]
All right, this last question. Hi.

01:01:52 [SPEAKER_2]
Last question, right here? Okay. A friend of mine founded a satellite company, and he also, together with that, created an ethics committee. And he went online to try and research other companies that had ethics committees to use that as reference, and couldn't find any. And so what do you think the place of ethics is in business? And, you know, where do VCs, you know, where should VCs'place be in that? Because we've found as companies grow, many of them, you know, it turns out they've done very questionable practices which harm their employees'rights and individual freedoms and so forth. And so, yeah, that's it.

01:02:45 [Brad Burnham]
So I do have an opinion on this, which is, and this is another debate that we have internally. This is again a debate that I have with Albert. He's a very big fan of something called a benefit corp, which at least begins to get at the idea that the corporation's job isn't just to create money for shareholders. It also has a second set of responsibilities to customers, employees, environment, whatever. And so he is really passionate about seeing that model in the marketplace. I look at it and think, you know, It's an information problem, right? I mean, when you mention that we find out later that a company has done questionable things, somehow that information wasn't available broadly. And if you think about a lot of the stuff that we do, we're investing in these networks where the company themselves creates nothing. It's the creator and the consumer, the driver and passenger. Those people are attributing their own personal brand to an affiliation of some kind with some network, right? And if that network is evil, good people aren't going to affiliate with that network, right? So I think that there's an; I think capitalism is actually a pretty fantastic system. And I think that what's happening now is, as we move into this network economy, is that capitalism is evolving in such a way that you can't get away with that shit. That you can't be that way and expect somebody to come onto the network and create value for you. If you're not actually living the values that you are espousing and sort of creating in your network, you're not gonna last. So I think that; I don't know that you need to create an ethics committee. I think that actually feels a little bit artificial and I don't think you necessarily need to brand yourself as a benefit corp. I think you need to be upfront about your values and you need to implement your values in your systems and through the way the architecture of the system works and you then need to live them.

01:04:52 [SPEAKER_1]
The only thing I would add to that is that the actions of individual employees of a company don't necessarily reflect the values of the company, but if the company tolerates those actions, then they become complicit in that, right? So, if the employee of one of our companies did something badly, and they were terminated, it doesn’t mean that our company acted badly, it means an employee acted badly. But if they did it and it was public and they were allowed to stay employed, and then another person did it and they were allowed to stay employed, then that company has effectively become complicit in that. So it’s very important as a CEO of a company, it's a very hard thing to do, to police your companies and demand that employees live up to your value system. And if they don’t live up to your value system, that they leave your company. And where it's really painful is when an employee makes a mistake. And they've been a good employee for years and years and years, and they do something stupid, like say something stupid in public on Twitter or something like that, and you have to fire them. And you know they're a good person. You know they just did something stupid. Maybe they were drunk or whatever. Like Uber, no? Well, I'm not talking about Uber. As a CEO, these are very hard decisions you have to make. And a lot of CEOs don't want to make them because they think that they're being cruel or harsh. But the problem is that if you're not willing to enforce your values as a CEO of a company, then the values are weakened. And it's easy for me to say, because I'm not a CEO of any company. Brad and I and a few other people run USV, and we haven't faced this issue, thankfully, inside USV, but I have been on many boards where CEOs face this issue, and it's a very hard thing to actually live up to your values in the moment.

01:06:56 [SPEAKER_2]
Do you think it's necessary to fire those people when they make that one mistake?

01:07:01 [SPEAKER_1]
Well, I mean, that's the question, right? That's the hard question, right? If I don't, then does everybody else in this company believe that it is then okay to behave that way? And then, do you in effect endorse that behavior? This is where being a CEO gets hard. This is one of many places where being a CEO gets hard. Brad, Fred, thank you so much for sharing your knowledge with us here today.

01:07:29 [SPEAKER_3]
We have two little presents for you. I don't know if you're foodies. But basically, those are Stollen. It's a traditional sort of Christmas cake. It's full of gluten, full of dairy, full of sugar. And weighs a lot. And weighs a lot.