
00:44:43 [SPEAKER_2]
Well, so I just want to come back to this rhetoric, which is not in this room, but rhetoric. In the discourse around blockchain out there, where there's really this discussion around the failing institutions that don't deliver democracy, and now here is the algorithm that is supposedly shifting that, and so there, the transparency of the algorithm really matters, right? And so, this is why I was so thrilled by Gregory's intervention to basically say, like, let's, you know, as a as a cooperative like vote on this algorithm which I thought was interesting, so what I would like to do before we take questions is maybe just to hear from each of you and this emerged a little bit already how you would I mean we are at this conference about platform cooperatives about the cooperative platform economy, so how can we make this link right? So one thing that the So Jamie made this link to the credit issue. We heard the governance issue, which is definitely one of the biggest problems, I think, in the cooperative world is governance. And I think this would be central. I'd like to hear from each of you a bit on that, like how you make that link. How would you see that link? How can your insight help this community? And then I can make a comment.

00:46:12 [Brad Burnham]
So this community is thinking about platforms and co-ops. And so I really like the focus on the metagame, and I think that we've talked a lot about governance. We've talked about designing it or allowing it to emerge through market mechanisms on these platforms with a new foundation. I'll make it very concrete to make it a little bit easier. We have a problem with Uber. The problem with Uber is that it's based on an equity model. And the most recent valuation of Uber was about $60, $70 billion. And that creates an expectation of earnings in a few years of about $10 billion. That's a lot more than they have today. Because in order to deliver a return to their equity investors, they have to find a way to either expand geographically or expand vertically into multiple industries, or increase their take rate. So if you're on that platform, if you're a driver or a passenger on that platform, it means that you can expect that more and more of the value created in that platform is going to go to the equity shareholders over time. And that means it's coming out of your pocket. I think there is an opportunity. If you think about what Uber actually does, it coordinates the activity of a driver and a passenger. They had some brilliant innovations like using the GPS and the devices, using a map to give you confidence that the car was actually coming to you. All of these things were really wonderful innovations that made a huge difference in reputation systems, made a huge difference in giving you the confidence to use the network. It hasn't changed much since those original innovations. And so you can imagine that that platform could be reduced to a protocol. And if it is reduced to a protocol, and that protocol uses a token to incent the economic behavior, to get a driver to show up, to give passengers the confidence that a driver will show up, then what you can imagine, the difference is that instead of company that's trying to create you know monopoly profits for the longest period of time and then return those to shareholders; then if the token is mediating the behavior on the network then in the driver's cash register in the passenger's wallet as that token as more people come to the network that token appreciates, the participants in the network will participate in the value that they're creating in that network it's a fundamentally different model and I think it's one that is really not too far off and we're going to begin to see it more and more on all of these platforms in the in the near future; um yeah that's a that's a great example; um I also want to look at the question the other way around.

00:49:16 [SPEAKER_1]
Part of the reason I'm here is to learn from other cooperators, to learn from other people who have experience living what it means to be a cooperative. I think we don't know a lot about how governance works with the blockchain, and I stay awake at night thinking about the issues with respect to labor. And what happens when decentralization sweeps through the globe and it's the wild west again, and just as many people can be disenfranchised but now in a digitally accelerated way. So I really want to hear from folks-you know how? How do we design it so that or or or don't design it anti-design it so that it's so that it it works differently, uh, so that I think that's another side of the question.

00:50:11 [SPEAKER_4]
So I think it's important to think about what you collectively or individually want to try and achieve as a system, a competing system. And you're not going to be the only system in town. And there's one kind of system at the moment that we know is not working. But I think it's really important to-do you want to be a niche or a niche? I don't know what you call it in the States. Niche, by the way. Do you want to just be a niche? Or do you want to create a system that can go mainstream? Because if you want to compete with Uber, you need to create a system and an experience that is, if not equal, better. Because mainstream first care about price, convenience or interchangeably between the two. And then maybe ethics. A lot less than most of the people in this room. So I think if you sit there and kind of overlay your priorities onto the market and assume it's going to behave in a certain way, it's probably not. And people still use Uber despite all of the horrible things that they hear because it's convenient. And it's usable. And they can go to any city in the world and away they go. So if you want to create a competing system, then I think we need to accept those things and try to take it mainstream. Maybe you don't want it to be mainstream. I don't know.

00:51:50 [SPEAKER_3]
I actually don't use Uber, not because it's the convenience, but because I don't like the way that the company is run, and what Brad is talking about is part of the philosophy behind that. I think most people have a hard time imagining an alternative which I think is a fair thing because I don't think that there are, I just think it's a hard thing to do and for me that's why as being someone who was interested in co-ops and then started reading about blockchain and smart contracts and I, I saw the parallel there really strongly because they both are trying to be alternatives. It wasn't for me the technology itself that got me so excited. It was the fact that it was a group of people coming together to build something different. I think we kind of touched on that, that blockchains are a new way to try to coordinate a group of people. I feel like that we're in the early stages of even trying to think about what that means. But I think what is important, if you are trying to approach it from the co-op perspective, and I can't speak for everyone in co-ops, I think, though, that there is a vibe of joining a co-op because you don't want to be dependent upon big business that's invested in things that you don't believe in. So, I believe that in order for like co-ops and blockchains to emerge, there has to be a sense that the underlying investment of the technology is something that people have a shared belief in, and it can't look like the current economy. Then, um, and so I think for what that means for me or what I continue to try to think about is um how to not map the existing system on top of the new technology. I think that's going to be the hardest thing for success, because it What happens is that when projects start to get funded, it becomes easier to think about what's been done, and it gets quicker, and you can move things faster because all you have to do is say, well, we're putting a blockchain on this. But I think when you take the longer-term co-op approach, it really is like, how do we allow the principles of both the co-op movement or whatever the movement is to create their own system of currency and exchange? And I think having multiple different systems for different purposes would be a great outcome of what could be developed. But the infrastructure to do that would have to be in place, and I don't see it there yet, but I think we can get there.

00:54:56 [SPEAKER_11]
It's called FairCoin. So, in Bitcoin, you produce new Bitcoins by spending huge amounts of energy for no good purpose, just solving stupid crypto problems. In the Fair Coin system, the way you earn Fair Coins is you actually do business with a co-op, and you get paid in Fair Coin. So when you deliver something to a co-op, the co-op pays you with Fair Coin. So this way, first, we solve the ecological problem of Bitcoin. Second, we solve the big problem of the contemporary monetary system, which is basically just injecting liquidity into the banks that are then investing it often into things that are going to need the recurring schemes to get funded, like Uber, but are not actually funding communities that could actually have these internal currencies that would generate velocity of exchange and bring everyone out. So here's a great example of using the blockchain technology as to facilitate co-ops generating their own currency and trading with other co-ops. I can tell you more about that, but curious what you think.

00:56:13 [SPEAKER_2]
Should we take two or three? Yeah. So the second question that was handed to me here, and then I think we go back to it and then move on. This person here was vague, and then we come to it. So this person lost his voice, so I'm supposed to read it out. Can you comment on the evolution of the relationship between cryptocurrencies and fiat currency that later is needed to sustain life? So, okay. We can handle those two at once. These two, and then maybe after we ask one more question.

00:56:49 [SPEAKER_7]
My question, since blockchains and technology generally are fairly morally agnostic, what do you think about the reality of creating blockchains in the context of pretty overwhelming violence? How do you feel about basically reproducing that violence in a distributed, ledger, verifiable way?

00:57:15 [SPEAKER_4]
Verifiable violence.

00:57:18 [SPEAKER_2]
You want to try those a few minutes together?

00:57:24 [Brad Burnham]
Is this one working? So the third question by ducking it. Yes. Thank you, thank you, thank you. So, well, I'm not going to entirely duck it. I am one of a whole lot of people who was completely enthralled with the early Internet and the degree to which You know, the world before the early Internet was dominated by media companies that controlled distribution, and we all agreed to talk to each other, and all of a sudden, those distribution bottlenecks went away, and we could reach anybody, and we had a profound set of consequences that, you know, really opened up for an early Cambrian explosion of innovation. But one of the political consequences was the Arab Spring, and I, among others, naively believed that in a world of open communication, dictatorships would not last. And the Arab Spring fueled that hope, and then it was crushed. And what we learned is that technology is morally agnostic, and dictators figured out how to use it more efficiently. Than we did, and perhaps had more at stake and invested more in understanding how to use it than we did, so. This time round, I really do believe I do as I said earlier, believe in decentralized emergent bottom-up startup innovation, and I do believe that open public data stores will reignite that innovation, but I'm a lot less sanguine about the direction of that innovation. I'm a little bit more worried about the problem that you pose, but I don't have an answer. The only difference between this time and the last time is that this time we're going into it trying to encourage the decentralized innovation, but aware of the possibility that it could backfire.

00:59:37 [SPEAKER_4]
Yeah, and building on that, I think, again, it's about building systems, and I think we need to to your point rapidly accelerate uh that process because um the danger is, I mean China has already announced their Citizen School recently, right? Um there's no better tool to realize that than a blockchain, you know. Modi is trying to crack down on cash And there's no better system to use than a blockchain to create a cashless society where every transaction is auditable. So we've gifted these innovations. And I think the great thing is that the cycle between Web 2 and Web 3 is close enough that we collectively have a memory of what the utopic thoughts and ideals we had in Web 2. I guess normally these cycles are far apart, that people forget about them.advantage is that it's short enough that we can recall, shit, we really got hoodwinked on that one. And hopefully now we can point our attention to designing a system that's at least going to compete because, again, you can't stop other people creating systems that have different intent. But we can rapidly accelerate. And I think, again, it comes back to me, this is why the token part's important, right? Because the reality of today is capital drives attention, right? It drives the creative attention and output of people. Maybe there's a better system, a better solution that's going to come. But on the whole now, put a dollar there and people are going to focus on it. And so there's an opportunity to, within the current system, drive attention to this new system we want to create.

01:01:30 [SPEAKER_2]
And just re-emphasizing the question here, right, was the relationship between the cryptocurrency and fiat money. And to see, basically, will this token put stakes in the freezer of this open source developer?

01:01:49 [SPEAKER_4]
Yeah, well, I mean, so I'll let you expand on it. But basically, you know, fiat. Fiat is no different to a token, right? It's just got a different issuer, right? And we choose to believe in this piece of paper as a debt that we can go to a bank and they're going to exchange. So it's exactly the same. The reality is, which is why I don't think Bitcoin, for example, will ever be used to buy cheeseburgers. Because people don't want to have to make conversions. People are lazy, right? They don't want to have to make conversions, currency conversion, every time they're buying a product. So for me, actually, these things should be invisible. And actually, we could just create a fiat-pegged cryptocurrency for actual means of exchange that's more stable.

01:02:49 [SPEAKER_1]
I want to say that there are differences. There are real substantive differences between fiat and crypto. And one of them, again, goes back to public works. There's no one in Bitcoin nation that's going to go extract taxes from you. It just isn't going to happen. But the IRS can knock on your door and has the right to enforce extracting taxes.

01:03:12 [SPEAKER_4]
Now, you know, sometimes people will try and tax your capital gains in Bitcoin or any crypto.

01:03:18 [SPEAKER_1]
Yeah, but again, that's a separate; you have financial fees on all the fiat currencies as well, and that's for the services providers, right? But taxes fund public works. And so this goes right to this point about morally agnostic, right? It goes straight to the point about morally agnostic. But I want to say that specifically with respect to our chain, of all the things that we're considering, me personally, what I'm working on is last mile first. I'm working on making it easy to use our chain to walk into the farmer's market and get vegetables and tofu and whatever, and make that seamless. I want to make it easy for doctors to come together with patients who can also come together and pay each other. And I've already, you know, I've kind of drunk the Kool-Aid in the sense that I've seen it's possible to create these networks where the value begins to emerge amongst the parties. And so I think that this becomes possible. And so this is my personal, practical goal with the R chain technology. But I don't yet know how to solve this other problem around making sure that public works get funded. But I do know that I was just at Ethereum DevCon, and someone came up to me and started talking about this project called Gifted, which is very much about public works, blockchain-based public works kinds of things. And I was very intrigued. I haven't had a chance to go look at it, but that's a project to look at.

01:05:04 [SPEAKER_3]
I think the idea of blockchains being morally agnostic, I don't think I believe that. I think, and even when I look at the history of the web, I mean, I wasn't in my career when the web was being created, but I think that if you were to look back and think about the moral obligations of the companies that are now the consolidation layer of the web today,I think there is definitely some tendencies there, it is like consolidation of data like that's a very um clear example of the kind of world that they were part of shaping and creating and I think the same thing could totally happen and is happening in blockchain. I think if we don't admit that then we're kind of being a little bit ignorant. Um so I feel like the the question is more like how do we um not allow that to be the case, how do we like take ownership over the fact that like we are part of building the things that are going to impact a lot of people and then if we are going to do that like what what's the best way to take in consideration of the people that were that that is going to be impacted by that.

01:06:19 [Brad Burnham]
So Ashley you said something earlier about the scale of co-ops and the degree to which it's difficult to to really grow them beyond a certain point, and one of the you know characteristics of the internet was that it was a network of networks and you could have a set of smaller networks and you could be a member of a smaller network and you could still interact with a larger network. I've heard now about FairCoin and our our chain,And it sounds like both of them intend to be a medium of exchange within a community. And instead of a government backing that medium of exchange, it's a collective of community members, a collective of co-ops, for instance, who say, we'll accept this medium of exchange. We'll accept this currency. And I think I'm not a techno-utopian, but I am a techno-optimist. And I believe that it might be possible to have currencies grow as networks of networks. And the really interesting thing to watch would be the exchange rates between networks and the degree to which that is becomes really highly automated, such that I don't have to think too much about it, but I'm able to basically present something and get something done. Maybe it's just a chip in my phone and I can get something done in different networks and the exchange is handled behind the scenes. But if that exchange can be really seamless, then I can imagine bootstrapping a network of networks by a lot of these smaller cooperatives accepting these currencies.

01:08:17 [SPEAKER_8]
Question here. Hey. So one of the things that I would like some clarification on is you talked a little about the failures of Uber and something that just seemed like the greatest of capitalism. And then it seems like blockchain is just more capitalism everywhere, almost, to control all of society, to control everyone. And we can see non-capitalistic ways of group decision-making happening in autonomous regions or in small communities. So where do you see community being, like, without, say, a capitalistic currency to mediate things, where do you see that being a good way of, you know, coming together as a group versus when do you need the currency to run this thing? Where do you see that trade-off?

01:09:05 [SPEAKER_4]
I was going to ask this one. I don't really. So again, I think technology generally is agnostic. A gun is agnostic, right? So I don’t think that inherently, just because it has a means, a token or cryptocurrency is just a means of exchange. And that token, that unit of value can represent It can represent access. It can represent all of these things. It doesn’t have to be a speculative asset. And you can actually design it. So you’re limiting the ability for people to speculate with that.

01:10:04 [SPEAKER_8]
some unit that you say, like, this is worth this, and we’re going to trade these things. You could have a society that, you know, you don’t need that.

01:10:10 [SPEAKER_4]
But you need a unit of value to be able to fractionalize, trying to think of the right word, you need a unit of value, whether you like it or not, and we are moving into a world of greater decentralization and greater automation. Right, and I think we need to align these two things otherwise Automation is going to be in the hands of people like Uber and Google and whatever and you'll have no choice but to unplug from the internet so for me a unit of value is that unifier right? I don't it doesn't have to be massively speculative, it can be, I'd argue it it helps but I'm a capitalist, so.

01:10:59 [SPEAKER_2]
There are so many more questions, though. And I think this person in the back has actually tried for a very long time. And then you second, okay?

01:11:06 [SPEAKER_9]
I just have a question. I've been holding a question that's just on that line. I'd have to take some issue. I mean, I think there's an inconsistency there in that you can design it to be completely speculative or to be less speculative. And that's a design choice, and it's a morally informed design choice. So clearly there's morals in the technology design choices we're making at every stage. So I'm not sure what a technology stack that has no morally charged design choices in it. And I think the question I have, so as a very practical one, is that I have like a nuts and bolts question, which is, you know, so we've built some initial platform offerings and, you know, the blockchain promises of being able to distribute and share resources amongst cooperatives is really promising and it's amazing. And it's actually the speculation and the volatility in the market that means that right now it's really a hard use case. You know, especially if you're, you know, there's lots of, you know, the promises of reaching young banks with blockchain. All of these kind of problems to reach out to the margins. The volatility in the market makes it very hard to actually realize any of those right now because it's so easy. How can you ask someone who's living on $1 a day to subject their income to such volatility? So I'm kind of curious if the panelists have any thoughts about: I really like the way you framed this initially, the genius of blockchain bootstrapping with capital up front. How can we bootstrap the blockchain-enabled co-op movement? When the market is so full of, you know, what appear to be these kind of libertarian values in the system?

01:12:33 [SPEAKER_4]
Well, I mean, so, again, I think if you're designing a system and you want mainstream to adopt that system so it becomes the overriding system, to date, you know, we all live and we all directly or indirectly endorse capitalism, you know, just by participating in a capitalistic society. So we have to accept that, right? And so personally, I think leveraging some of the tools that capitalism has given us to serve a different purpose is, but it's just, that's my opinion. It's just one approach.

01:13:12 [SPEAKER_1]
I really, you've been so patient. I want to hear your question. I do want to respond, but you've been so patient, I would love to hear your question.

01:13:19 [SPEAKER_6]
I'm a veteran, and I am down here from Washington, D. C.And I'm working on some ideas, and the only reason why I came is you know they told me to come and check out disruptions and disruptions. But I gotta tell you, I hate technology; I think that you're all a bunch of fools. I'm more in the camp of the creative conversation with uh, I and uh, the guy who created mobile, Just came out from Paris Company a month ago. This is like trying to fix a flat tire. And I tell you the truth, as a veteran-this is veteran, don't tell me about agnostic. This is bullshit. This is the Gold Star family. I lived in Washington, D. C., with my father, 95, World War II vet. And the horseshit I'm hearing nowadays? And especially from technology. I'm totally pissed at you. When you tell me the Capitol is a driver, I want to pick up a gun and go to war. I am not in favor of what Wall Street has done with your technology. I feel like I'm riding in a, I've seen a car hit the wall. Now I'm riding in a train doing a thousand miles off of a precipice, and I'm pissed. Can you try to turn that into a question? Here's what it is. The data breach that I listened to on Wednesday night in the congressional hearings, I'm telling you, if you're not scared now, you better grab your ass. Because it's going to take a human solution. And who I am standing with is the Lakota Indians. These people that can't stand your technology, but they still have their feet on the ground. They're still humans. That's the cooperative I want to go out to. And I'm not going to, you know, I respect every one of them. But I tell you what, either we are going to become human beings with some ethics and how we treat each other and start caring about one another. This technology is not going to solve the problem. Thank you. Thank you.

01:15:56 [SPEAKER_1]
First of all, I love the comment. I absolutely agree. And this is why I keep talking about the technology is a part of coordinating capacity. We have to be able to coordinate ourselves. And I largely view this as a suite of tools that allow us to tap into what the Indians have known for a long time-it's how to tap into a larger collective intelligence. That collective intelligence is real. And the recognition of that fact goes to the foundations of the democracy of this country, right? We're not a monarchy because we believe in the wisdom of the collective intelligence over any single individual intelligence. And I think largely what we've been talking about here is what are the ways that we can support the formation of that collective intelligence? Co-op is one. There's a hope that the blockchain might also support the formation and access to that collective intelligence. But I wholeheartedly hear you.

01:17:10 [SPEAKER_4]
Absolutely, I mean I feel like I need to personally respond to that so your enemy if we want to kind of frame it in that context but let's just say that the state or whatever it is that you're okay well there's a system that you don't like and they have technology, right? They have technology. And they are using it to serve their purpose and not your purpose. So my point is, and maybe you didn't hear this throughout what I was saying, but my point is that we need to use that technology to serve our purpose. Now, you can opt out of it. That's totally your choice. But what I'm saying is that the system that you might not like has that technology, actually. And wars are generally won with technology advantages. Another question from somebody?

01:18:10 [Brad Burnham]
Well, we didn't answer the question in the back. Can you restate it for us?

01:18:16 [SPEAKER_9]
It's two questions joined. The short-term question is, for folks who are working in this space and want to start building platform co-op tech on the blockchain, how do we address the volatility? The second question more generally is, is it a symptom of a larger architectural issue we need to think about? And that's already been spoken to a little bit. Do we need to really think about how these systems are?

01:18:36 [Brad Burnham]
So, the question was, right now, all of the tokens the marketplace are very volatile and people are uncomfortable using something that volatile as a medium of exchange. And so, particularly if you're trying to protect the interests of a collective and particularly if that collective is not technology-savvy but really just trying to get on with their lives, and sees this as an enabling tool as opposed to something that controls them-how do you make them comfortable in this environment? And then you have to come back to the question of it's particularly difficult if you need to aggregate capital to get started. So if you're trying to do something like a fiber co-op where there's a significant investment, you have to allow for the speculation. You have to bring speculators into the token in some way. If you're doing something that doesn't have that capital requirement up front, obviously you can make it less attractive to speculators in some way. There are people that are experimenting with very long lockups that make it very difficult to get in and out of the tokens. I think there are people that are experimenting with requirements to bond or stake to participate in a network which dampens volatility. I think the only real answer is, we don't have an answer but we have a whole lot of experiments going on and hopefully one of the things that yields is you know sort of a series of you know sort of lurching towards something that becomes more stable more useful more trusted, yeah.

01:20:28 [SPEAKER_1]
I really want to hear from you, but so again what I tried to say at the very very beginning is that the blockchain is not about tokens, I mean, you can use it for that, right? And I agree, some very awesome, interesting applications. I don't agree that we have to continue to submit to the idea that value has to be turned into a number. I don't think that that's something that we have to submit to at all, right? And so if you just think about it as some open source technology that can be run over a bunch of global servers, you can start using it right now. And a bunch of people are pounding on it, and so you get a lot of value off of their hard labor, right? So ignore the tokens if that's not cool, if it's too volatile for those people, and just use the other value.

01:21:21 [SPEAKER_3]
Can I just answer first the question about the currency and the community? I think And what's always been more interesting to me is using the blockchain to coordinate not for the currency itself, but for using reputation. And I studied cultural anthropology, and a lot of my training or research was in reading a lot of the classic field of economics texts, but looking at it from the perspective of culture and what cultural anthropologists had said. One thing that has been interesting in different societies is trading based upon IOUs. So you would enter into direct relationships with other people where you would lend them something for a day, like let them use your plow, or you would go do something for them. And then you didn't say, you have to pay me back this number of whatever. You just did it. And then the next time, they always gave you back something that was more valuable than what you had given them in the beginning. And that led to this relationship of IOUs where you're incentivized to keep exchanging with that person. I'm not saying that's the model, but I think that's one interesting model that we can go to. And then that kind of gets to the idea of like, we're using these contracts not because we're trying to create a technology to help us create a new type of money, but it's rather just to help us do the things that we want to do in a way that doesn't create these systems that are centralizing too much of the value and taking it for themselves. And then that question in terms of the volatility and the co-ops, I mean, as a co-op, I wouldn't say that you really need Bitcoin today. I would probably tell you to not use it today or any of the other tokens that exist, I mean, I haven't looked at all of them, obviously, but I don't think that that's what your solution really is, I don't think we really have like a platform that's super suitable yet, I mean, I haven't explored our chain yet, but I'm excited to check it out, um, but I think that it's not just like the financial piece that, um, we're looking for in terms of a co-op, I think we're really thinking more about the governance.

01:24:13 [SPEAKER_5]
It's not. It's not, okay. It should be, not currently. So, in that case, but your proposition was that blockchains offer a different way of storing and managing personal information in some way, so I'd like to know more about that. And secondly, cooperative principles include respect for community, and I'd be interested to know whether any of these newer chains that I know less about, like our chain, support the energy issue, the vast quantities of energy needed to do any of this stuff at all.

01:24:41 [Brad Burnham]
Let me take the first one because I actually, I mean, I think when Jamie says that blockchains aren't an appropriate personal data store today, he's referring to the limitations of the existing blockchain architectures and their transaction volume and scalability. And so from those perspectives, he's absolutely right that they aren't.

01:25:07 [SPEAKER_4]
But there's another way. Just throw one more thing in there because it's; It's also being able to triangulate. If you're doing something on a public ledger, you have to assume the state could go rogue and you have a footprint of everything you've ever done that could be turned against you. And so that's my actual main concern with identity and personal data on a blockchain is that that's pretty dangerous.

01:25:40 [Brad Burnham]
I'm going to take the completely opposite perspective, and I think it's going to be very controversial, but I'll just point out that I live in New York City. It's kind of an anonymous place, but I have a small cottage in a community that's tiny, 250 people in the wintertime, and I've been there all my life. My parents were there. And in that little community, there is very little anonymity. And the cost of that is, you know, you are who you are. You can't escape that. The value of that is that you can accomplish a lot because you've been there all your life, and essentially you've never screwed anybody, and everybody knows that. And so I think there's a possibility. That we will come to understand that blockchains are open, public, immutable data stores and that it may turn out that the best way for you to build reputation is for you to actually voluntarily build a reputation which is essentially accumulating all of your interactions. Since with all of the social media networks, all of the services that you interact with on a blockchain, because it's an immutable record and because it's independently verifiable, you cannot change it after the fact. Now, the problem of it being a horrific weapon in the wrong hands is absolutely real. And the question is, how much do we trust the cryptography? If we do trust the cryptography, which, frankly, if we don't trust cryptography, blockchains don't work, right? They immediately break down. So we're kind of assuming that we trust the cryptography. If we do trust the cryptography and we believe that an individual should be in control of the keys of that immutable record of their entire interactions over time, and they can parcel out pieces of that interaction, in ways that serve them and not serve a service provider in the sky, I think there's a really interesting possibility there. I realize, as I say it, how scary it is, but I think it's something that we have to explore because of the potential of it.

01:28:13 [SPEAKER_1]
I really have to respond a little bit. I really enjoyed what you said, and it's very much in alignment with the kind of thinking that we do at our chain in terms of the notion of, there's a kind of recursive relationship between identity and reputation. And our notion of identity is qualitative. So you reveal as much about your personal information as is necessary to conduct the interaction. How much trust is necessary for that interaction? So that's a very, very natural way to do it. There are lots and lots of pitfalls. And it's not just about the cryptography. There's a lot more to it than that. But I really enjoy the subtlety of that thinking. That's spot on. With respect to the energy consumption that you were talking about, so if you remember, I said there's a family of algorithms that are economically secured. So proof of work is one of them. And the way to think about this industry is a lot like the web from before. HTTP was a stupid protocol. Really stupid. HTTP 1.0 was so stupid, no computer scientist in their right mind would design it. And because it was that stupid, then system administrators would look at the protocol and go, oh, that can't do anything. Yeah, I'll let it through the firewall. And because it was let through the firewall, there was this possibility that a network effect could happen. Proof of work is kind of like that. It's really stupid protocol, but it's so easy to explain and understand that it allows the network effect to happen, okay? But there are lots of other economically secured distributed consensus algorithms. I work with Vitalik and Vlad on a variation of our family, a subfamily of that family called proof of stake, and in particular Casper. And that has a much lower energy consumption profile. And that fits into a larger solution that's really about chains of chains. And that's really what our chain is about: networks of chains, chains of chains that compose in a particular way. And if you look at nature, that's the only way to scale. It's got to be fractal or it doesn't actually scale. So that helps with the energy problem. It also turns out, remember I said there's this recursive relationship between identity and reputation. It lines up with that as well.

01:30:45 [SPEAKER_3]
I haven't thought so much about this, but in terms of that question about the energy, I mean, yeah, it can't be what it is. While yes, there are tons of other protocols I think it's important to look at like Bitcoin and um Ethereum's uh carbon emissions is like that's what's impactful though. Even though there's like the potential like where the community is um right now is like organized around those systems so um I think for me I've Like I was saying in the beginning, I don't really want to just focus on designing an algorithm for mining first because I don't think that's the right way to do it for me. But I think there's something to do with reputation and mining. So rather than incentivizing people with tokens to prove that data is correct and hasn't been tampered with, other ways that you can do that are by, for example, kicking people off the network if they're submitting invalid information. And in order to do that, you have to have what Brad's saying in terms of a public identity and reputation about who you are. So there are different designs possible that could address that, but right now, I mean, it's not widely used.

01:32:08 [SPEAKER_2]
So we're out of time, but we can maybe take one more question, yeah, if you're a minimal. So one more, the lady.

01:32:17 [SPEAKER_10]
I'm hesitating to ask this question. I struggle with immutability. How does immutability apply to reputation? Because of the social, organic nature of reputation. I, too, know about small communities, and one of the downsides, of course, is that you play this trail all the time that everybody knows, and you can't break out of that. You can't evolve out of that. And so I can't fit that notion of reputation into a paradigm that is about immutability.

01:32:55 [SPEAKER_4]
I mean, it's a really complex topic. And I don't even necessarily know my opinion on it, to be honest with you. I think in, I don't know about in the States, but in Europe you have the right to be forgotten. And, you know, they're going after Google and Facebook. Okay. So, you know. By law, they're ensuring that everyone has a right to be forgotten. Now, you could argue maybe some people shouldn't have the right to be forgotten. I don't know.

01:33:28 [SPEAKER_12]
Yeah, go ahead. Like, our chain is kind of a different path to do this stuff. We go pretty deeply into the right to be forgotten. The mutable ledgers. And when you think about what the right to be forgotten is really about, it's not about you being able to step into somebody's mind and erase their memory. It's about whether or not that memory, whether it's recorded in a criminal record or somewhere else, whether it's an acceptable input into some new process. Whether it's something that this new community or this heathered agency is going to be willing to take in or push out, So right to be forgotten, these are all about social relationships. At the end of the day, And what we're really doing here isn't just transactions, right? It's decisions about how we want to relate to one another. And those are held as individuals and as individuals in relationship with others, deciding these are the rules of the game that we want to play by. And these kinds of things, if you're spreading information about what somebody did 30 years ago, that's not okay. That's not acceptable in our community. But these are not top-down things. These are decisions that we make.

01:34:41 [SPEAKER_1]
As individuals and in relationships, I just got to play with that for just a minute, you know. It's it's one thing for a judge to say okay, that line of questioning or that evidence is now inadmissible because we're following this particular protocol. But when we're talking about a community, it's a different thing entirely, right? I was just thinking about, as you were talking, I was just thinking about the scene in the new Thor Ragnarok movie where the Hulk gets out of the hot tub and Thor says, 'I can't unsee that', right? You know, so it's the same thing here. There are certain acts that a community just can't unsee. So, I mean, how does that work then?

01:35:20 [Brad Burnham]
And there's a trade-off, and I think one of the key elements is devolving control over identity to give individuals the choice, the ability to make those trades. To use my reputation to achieve something within a community, I probably have to reveal myself in some way. And I may have to reveal myself historically. But if I choose to go to the big city and become anonymous, I ought to be able to choose that, but I don't have the same leverage that I had in the smaller community where my reputation was who I was. And so each of these is going to be a choice. And to get back to the observation that what we're really talking about is the metagame, who gets to make that choice is really what matters.

01:36:14 [SPEAKER_2]
So I was really enjoying this so thank you so much for those fantastic discussions and fantastic questions. And if the rules of the game work perfectly well, there should theoretically be some coffee out there waiting for you. And so continue the discussion and thank you very much to all this.