00:54:51 [SPEAKER_5]
So William III told the Dutch when Louis XIV was coming for them once that they had enough shipping in their harbors. They could put all of Holland on boats and go and start another Holland in the South Seas. And my friends, whose Yugoslavia was destroyed in the early 90s, many of them who considered themselves Yugoslav citizens of a place that didn't exist anymore wanted to make cyber you and have continuity that way. So facing this as a kind of national resiliency, it seemed to you like a credible prospect. Stalin would say, yeah, but socialism is where the Red Army stands. And I think meatspace still has some priority in that sense. But that ability to create identity or to run a national ratings system to attach the money to the behavior patterns. Is this why the Chinese Bitcoin mining bothers you, or is it just that if they had 51%, they could rewrite transaction history? It's history, not just transaction history, which is at stake in Brad's example, right? This is national identity and the flow of history, and the question of who gets to rewrite that. When I think about those public records becoming evidence, When I think about the long flow of the land law from the 11th century version that I teach in medieval English legal history in which we don't have any central records and we're never going to have them. You prove ownership by getting the will to come around and say 'we remember when it was transacted.'All the way to the point at which self-authenticating databases that don't rest in a safe in the county clerk's office, but are all over the net, but they're protected by wonderful encryption. Trust us, large numbers are really hard to factor in polynomial time. This changes the nature of how human beings think about memory and record keeping, and if Brad is going to take it up a level, we need to go all the way to the top of that. We're really talking about how we remember things. My friend Mr. Wright works for a man who built buildings that looked like disk drives because the way we remember things is we put them in Oracle. And that was the paradigm of a type of software and it made a ton of money for the guy. Now we're going to remember things a different way and we're going to both require trust and create trust. And at some point, we're going to trust everything we own to it and we're going to have to believe. It all does depend upon some math, and the idea that it is hard to break that crypto. And my friends in the anarchist cypherpunk world, they're already trying to go post-quantum with chips they can bake in their toaster ovens because they're not quite so sure of that math anymore. How do you feel about the lifespan of the math everything depends upon?

00:57:53 [SPEAKER_2]
So I'm not the crypto guy.

00:57:58 [SPEAKER_5]
Ah, but you are the crypto guy, whether you like it or not, aren't you? Yeah, I am.

00:58:01 [SPEAKER_2]
And I think that, you know, again, we have an awful lot of things to go through, again, if we're thinking about systems that are going to have longevity in 20, 30, 50, 70, 100 years from now. Is that the right timescale?

00:58:17 [SPEAKER_5]
Can we do that? Can we make software that will be good in this area 70 years from now?

00:58:21 [SPEAKER_2]
I think it's a good question. I mean, right now, you know, when you issue a certificate, it has an expiry. Right? We do that for a reason. And so, okay, so if I've signed something and put that into the blockchain and my certificate expires, is the court going to recognize that? Or are they going to recognize that it's an expired certificate? How do you prove that that was correct then? Right? So I think we, again, it just, I'm out on the, you know, I'm very sort of Aggressive when it comes to technology, but I think as you then think about what are you gonna do with it?

00:59:00 [SPEAKER_5]
You have to be very, very thoughtful about what and how these systems are going to last, and I don't think there are any easy answers; an absolutely unique instance where the The engineers are cautious and the lawyers want to jump ahead.

00:59:15 [SPEAKER_3]
And I think just going back to your crypto point though, right, and kind of brings it all back to cyber security, which is maybe today secure because of the cryptography. But at some point, the computing power will get such that it will no longer be secure. By definition, you can have a finite shelf life because you can have to cut it; or a paradigm shift.

00:59:34 [SPEAKER_2]
But then it's a matter again, if you have a long-lived system, do I have to re-sign it with my new key?

00:59:40 [SPEAKER_5]
Or a paradigm shift in hardware means that your software paradigm has fallen over. Yes, right. But if we could really factor large numbers in non-polynomial time, then I don't care which one you're using.

00:59:53 [Brad Burnham]
The problem is not that we're going to have quantum computing, and quantum computing is going to break all of the encryption that is currently used in all of the blockchains, right? That's going to happen, right?

01:00:07 [SPEAKER_5]
Yes, but that's not the problem.

01:00:09 [Brad Burnham]
No, the reason that's not the problem is that the question is, how do these systems evolve? And that gets you back to this question of governance. And I think that DAO is an interesting example. What happened, which Chris talked about, was when the DAO was hacked, the Ethereum community forked the entire blockchain and started essentially a new blockchain that rolled back that set of transactions and went off on their own. Well, there is still a remaining called Ethereum Classic. People who said, 'no, no, we don't agree with that fork', and we believe that code is law, and that the guy didn't do anything wrong, we told you there was a flaw in the code, you didn't fix it, so boom, we're over here. Well, the Ethereum, the fork, has got about a billion dollar market cap, and the Ethereum Classic has about a hundred million dollar market cap, so it's not nothing, but it's basically people voting for which of these two governance models. But we end up in this really interesting problem in that you concentrate, you know, the question is how do you, when quantum computing happens, how do you jump from one blockchain to the new blockchain encrypted by quantum encryption? And what is the governance system that gives you confidence that you're going to do that? Is it, you know, the majority of the people who own the coins? You know, democracy is not looking so good in our world right now, so maybe democracy isn't what you want. Maybe you want Linus Torvalds to say, 'Guys, it's time to go to the next, you know, blockchain.'That would be a benevolent dictator. Maybe you want something in between. But, you know, when we have that break, the problem is not going to be technology. It's going to be governance.

01:01:57 [SPEAKER_5]
No, I think this is an obvious moment for explaining how Brad and I get to be in the two rather different circumstances of the world that we are, because he thinks of those Ethereum forks as having certain market caps, and without personally describing which of those two forks it is, I will tell you that whichever one it is, whatever market cap it has, it still pays its lawyers zero. So there's something definitely wrong with me, anyway. So let's get some more voices into this. Who wants to ask a really large and complicated softball question of the kind that I'm unwilling to ask? Michael, you take this one. I'm not doing this.

01:02:42 [SPEAKER_0]
Thanks.

01:02:48 [SPEAKER_6]
So I'm here from the World Wide Web Consortium where we look at a different type of consensus, the sort of social and technical consensus around standards for interoperability for the web. And that's a funny and messy process of bringing people together to agree on what's needed to interoperate without getting into such detail that we just end up bickering about the things that don't matter while people building things go off in front. That's what we're trying to do. Well, I'm coming here as the less than a month in strategy lead for W3C. So I get to look at the big questions of how do we help the world and how do we help the web? So one of those questions is, is there something that the users of blockchain need that standards can provide that we can help in a governance mode?

01:03:53 [SPEAKER_2]
So I used to do a lot of work at the W3C. I know Danny remembers. And I think the answer to that is yes, but it's not clear to me whether or not we're at a point in time when we're ready to actually have standards. I think it's useful to start thinking about this. So one area is interoperability, right? So if we have all these blockchains, And there's all these different implementations. You have Bitcoin, you have Ethereum, you have Hyperledger Fabric, you have Sawtooth, you have Quorum, and you have Corda, whatever. There inevitably will come a time when these things need to be able to talk to one another. We need to be able to potentially have one blockchain talk to another blockchain and exchange transactions of some nature. And so I know that there's currently a community group.at W3C that's looking at, I think they call it interledger protocols. And so this notion of being able to have a token and a transaction transcend any one blockchain network into another. That's very simple with something like payments because you're dealing with very straightforward transactions. You can probably put a specific data model around that.and have that transcend any one particular blockchain. When you're looking at various other types of use cases, though, then the data models become really sort of independent of the blockchain itself, and interoperability is then gonna be based on, well, how are we exchanging those data models? That is, I think, where the W3C and the likes can come into play in terms of defining, just as we did back in the soap and web services days of defining these XML or JSON or whatever it is at any given time, models for any particular type of data. I think that those things are still gonna be vitally important as we roll out different blockchains that have different data models behind them, that we be able to exchange data freely between them is gonna be vitally important. But in terms of standards for blockchain itself, And again, I've been doing standards for almost 20 years, so I'm from that world, but I think that we want to make sure that we're not standardizing things too soon that stifles the technology and the evolution, because as I mentioned, there are some extraordinarily complex computer science problems that we're trying to solve, and if we harden them on some piece of paper that everybody goes, 'I'm going to, I'm going to over.'Uh, too soon then we aren't able to sort of move beyond where we are today, I think just to kind of add to that a little bit so whenever the time is right, we'll leave it to computer scientist people.

01:06:51 [SPEAKER_3]
But um, you know, we've been talking a lot about blockchain, a lot of the different applications, a lot of them financed others. I think one thing that's important in terms of the standard setting is that it's not just technical people – you need people that have a deep understanding of finance, or payments, or economics, or some of these other use cases we've been talking about. Because it's not like a web browser or DVD, right? There's a lot of other ramifications. I think it's important that you do bring that to full expertise.

01:07:18 [SPEAKER_0]
Thanks, everyone. It's a great panel. I want to ask a question that was prompted, Brad, by the analogy that you proposed, which is that I think this compelling analogy between what the telecom system was like and then what happened when you put TCP/ IP capabilities on essentially every connected host. And I think you're saying, well, you take the kind of network effect of personal data that's held in these centralized stores and you move it perhaps with something like a blockchain into a protocol and I guess the question I have is about simplicity and scalability. I mean, it seems like the combination of TCP/ IP and I would of course add HTTP was extraordinary because it was so simple and in a lot of ways horrible and you know it meant that people like Chris then had you know decades of work to do to add capabilities that normal systems had like state and whatever else right but you know there was a sweet spot there, I think you'd agree. In terms of simplicity and scalability, it strikes me that the challenge that blockchain is sort of illuminating is this: is more complicated, right? I mean, the kind of social mechanism that everyone here is trying to instantiate in a protocol as opposed to the messiness of human and institutional interactions is um is somewhat more complicated than the incredibly simple set of behaviors that TCP/IP can model. I'm just interested in how you think about what we do about that.

01:09:06 [SPEAKER_2]
I think that's actually a good point because when you think about TCP/ IP, it's pretty much send-receive, right? I mean, it's that simple. When I think about applying blockchain and distributed ledger technology to any given solution domain, then there's the whole, what are you building on top of it? And how are you using that? And it's not a simple send-receive. It's actually a little bit more complicated than that. It depends on what type of consensus model are you using and how are you storing the data? Are you encrypting it? How are you sharing it? Are you sharing it globally or are you sharing it only with select partners? And so it's going to be a little bit more complicated to write these types of systems. And again, I do think that over time it's going to take a body of work to build up best practices and patterns of use of blockchain and distributed ledger technology, just as we did with you know CORBA and you know web services and you know now REST and JSON and so forth; that you know Roy's paper was you know fantastic, but it's taken people 10 years to really sort of reason about it and and and actually start producing systems in a way that we can easily just sort of come to market with them. So I think the same thing is going to happen over time. I think we'll have a lot of proof of concepts that evolve into a production system in the next years, but I do think that there's still going to be a time period of three to five years while people sort of get their heads wrapped around it and figure out what to do with it and figure out what not to do with it in particular.

01:10:48 [SPEAKER_5]
Danny, on the basis of that question, can I ask a question back?

01:10:53 [SPEAKER_0]
He's a law professor.

01:10:54 [SPEAKER_5]
Yeah, yeah, that's the way it works, right? But that's okay. So I remember the night when you said to me, during a time when there was a thing called SOPA, and you said, you know, I think the White House now really understands DNS for the first time ever. The last two digits of that year, of course, were 12, I think. So you said this is going to be more complicated, and that means it's going to be a real challenge to the policy process. And Keith thinks of that as about Richard Cordray, because he has to think about Richard Cordray a lot. But what do you think? Assuming that the next government of the United States is rational and that it conducts policymaking. That you're going to assure us of at the end of today, right? Well, at any rate, there is an elephant in the room, let me put it that way. Assuming rationality in that sense, three to five years sounds roughly right for what Chris is talking about, which is just sort of making the engineers feel confident in details. What do you think? At the end of that time, is this still going to be somewhere down in the Treasury Department because this is all about fintech? Or is somebody from the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy going to be thinking about this at the end of the next president's presidency?

01:12:11 [SPEAKER_0]
So the reason I asked my question, which is really about Brad's view, is that I think what to me is quite exciting about this is it does address the core Elizabeth Warren. Problem of concentration and centralization. And even my very esteemed colleague, the Chair of the National Economic Council, Jason Furman, who's a pretty cautious economist, said the biggest drag on growth in this country is concentration in markets. And that, I think, is an extraordinary statement. And I think, so I tend to think money works. Okay, I mean, I take your point that that you could make it work better and cheaper, and you can settle more efficiently, and all that; but I think the question that I believe regulators and policymakers are going to ask is, 'Do we have another?'Option to really open up markets because that's what's going to transform. That's what's going to get us out of our sort of Sad state of growth and and also is going to answer the question about these You know these big ten companies that even The Economist is now writing about saying maybe they're too big so I think that's where I agree 100% as to the financial services regulators with Keith, but I think the broader economic policy is going to be about this decentralization.

01:13:37 [Brad Burnham]
So I think we do, but I think that we are in danger of sort of bringing the entire discussion to a grinding halt if we try and solve too big a problem too early. So I think Chris's observation is 100% correct. We're now talking about the possibility of restructuring very complicated systems, and you can get into a discussion that goes all the way up to the applications layer, and there's just no way to resolve that. But if you go back to TCP/ IP, send, receive, right? And then you just move up one layer to the data layer, and you say store. Don't store, right? And don't try and solve all of those other problems. If you just enable that data layer and you don't squash it, then I think we may end up with this really interesting balance between a market system that actually tends in a positive direction instead of one that tends in a negative direction without having to prescriptively define exactly how it's going to work. And the trick is going to be getting to Elizabeth Warren and saying, look, yeah, this is scary. It's anarchist. It's unregulated. But it is your friend in the end. And you need to recognize it as your friend.

01:15:22 [SPEAKER_5]
I never thought I would live to hear a Harvard bankruptcy professor described in these extraordinary, it just shows how people can change. Is there somebody here who would like to delay everybody else's lunch to ask one really smart question? I would love that to happen. Please, Scott, go ahead.

01:15:42 [SPEAKER_4]
Hand the man a microphone. Alright, everybody, I promise I'll be quick here. But so it's really, this is a fascinating topic and kind of leaves me with a lot of hope, but also a lot of abject terror. We're doing our jobs. Yeah, you're doing your job, right. So this is probably a question for Evan and for Chris, but if the assumption is that eventually, you know, quantum computing and whoever knows what the next stage is past that is eventually going to break all the hashes that we're using to verify the trust in the transactions. How do you keep ahead of this so you don't have to reestablish all the accumulated value that we would build into, say, a 25-year blockchain? Is it just a matter of an arms race to keep ahead of being broken? Or is there something intrinsic in the system that can help protect against this?

01:16:35 [SPEAKER_5]
You're not the crypto guy, so you need to answer the question.

01:16:39 [SPEAKER_2]
So, you know, not getting into sort of how to solve that problem, but the The notion of it being sort of a constant arms race, I think that, again, you know, and this is, I think, one of the fundamental reasons why we so strongly believe that this needs to be technology that is not controlled or owned by anyone, but that's a community-shared asset that we all collaborate on building. And that is because while we may start things that have to last for 25, 30 years, this technology has to evolve over that period of time. So it's got to be a living thing. And so in that regard, yeah, it'll be constantly adapting to whatever the current state of technology is. And if we need to have stronger crypto, we get stronger crypto. If we need to think about other approaches because nobody can out-compute a quantum computer, well, then we have to go back to square one and rethink some of these things. But yeah, I think, again, it requires that we bring everybody together, get all the smart people in the room. I used to work at Sun. That's why I could make fun of the Sun jokes a little bit earlier. But I mean, the network is a computer. And Bill Joy had this saying. He basically said that no matter who you are, how many smart people you employ, there are more smart people that work for somebody else. When you can get all of those people collaborating together out in the open, That's the winning game right there.

01:18:08 [SPEAKER_5]
But Bill Joy was right that those people are disadvantaged because all the people who work somewhere else are using PowerPoint. You have to admit that he knew something about all that. So, could we have a round of applause for the smart people in the room? You heard it here first. Maybe none of us understood it, but you heard it here first, and everybody's going to be hearing about it later, you can be sure. My thanks to the Open Invention Network and to Qualcomm Technology Industries for helping me to deliver you free lunch. And we will have enough time for eating and networking and talking, and we will resume here to discuss automobiles at 1:30. Don't touch that dial. Bye-bye.