00:00:02 [SPEAKER_1]
This Week in Startups is brought to you by DigitalOcean, providing the easiest cloud platform to deploy, manage, and scale applications. Sign up today and receive a free $100 credit at do.co/twist. Squarespace: start your free trial site today. When you decide to sign up for Squarespace, use offer code TWIST to get 10% off your first purchase. And HubSpot. Join thousands of startups that are growing better with HubSpot for Startups. Learn more and get extra benefits for being a Twist listener now at HubSpot.com/ slash startups/ slash twist.

00:00:45 [SPEAKER_2]
Hey, everybody. Hey, everybody. Welcome back to This Week in Startups. I'm your host, Jason Calacanis, and we host this podcast twice a week, and we've done so for almost a decade. One of the greatest venture capital firms over the last two decades has invested in companies you know, Twitter, Etsy, Tumblr, Foursquare, Stripe, Lending Club, DuckDuckGo, Coinbase, tons of amazing, amazing startups. But what makes this firm unique is that they're not based in Silicon Valley. They're based in New York. Of course, I'm talking about Union Square Ventures, founded by my good friend Fred Wilson, and for the first time on this podcast, his co-founder, Brad Burnham. Brad, welcome to the program.

00:01:27 [Brad Burnham]
Thank you, Jason. You co-founded with Fred USV Union Square Ventures 2003 This is after 9-11 and the dot-com bust Yep Were you in venture before that or you were an operator No I was in venture I was at AT &T Ventures And Fred and I had co-invested in Multex Systems You might remember them Sure In the 90s And so we got back together to do Union Square Ventures Got it Things were looking pretty bleak in the tech business They were Yeah So good time to start actually Tough time to raise money And one of the things that lots of entrepreneurs forget is that venture capitalists have to raise money too. Yeah. It took us 80 meetings and a year to raise our first fund. And that was when Fred and I both had what I would describe as wind-aided track records in the 90s. So, I think his IRR was in the 80s and my IRR was in the high 70s. So, you'd think if you put those two together, you'd be able to raise the fund pretty quickly. Two things we were working against. One is that it was a first-time fund for the two of us. We hadn't worked together before. It was also true that at the time, most LPs thought you should have more than two partners. That's changed over the years. So, two partners, first-time fund, and we had a provocative thesis. We were going to invest in the applications layer of the web. And a lot of people lost money in the late 90s in first-time funds investing in the applications layer of the web. And so it took us a while.

00:03:06 [SPEAKER_2]
And that is one of the key things about venture-having a thesis, knowing where you're going and why you're doing it, I guess, and the ability to change that.

00:03:15 [Brad Burnham]
You know, I think so, but I don't think it's actually, perhaps it's becoming more common. Back then it wasn't that common. I think a lot of venture capital was filter feeding, you know, building networks of entrepreneurs and lawyers and others, university professors that could sort of point you at stuff and then sort of deciding what are the things that are floating by, what are the things that you like the best? And I think that kind of worked when we were really investing in pure technology. So switches and routers and chips and things like that, because a good team out of a university, you know, the way you would bring that product to market was pretty consistent. And so you could bring a lot of value to that. You had people on the bench that had built a router company before, and you could bring them to bear on this new company. And so I think it made sense then. It was a bit of a playbook. There was a playbook. But I think as we moved to the web and we moved to more of a services opportunity, then knowing where you're going made a lot of sense.

00:04:21 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah. And what else has changed since that time? And I'll earmark the time of 2003 when you raised the first fund because much has changed in venture capital in the last 15 years. When you look back on that arc, what has changed?

00:04:38 [Brad Burnham]
Wow. You can work backwards, forwards. I'm going to go backwards because I think that, you know, the. The late 90s, mid-90s, sort of the late 80s and 90s were dominated by the very strong firms that were created in the early 80s, late 70s, the names that we all know. Kleiner, Sequoia. Right. And they were still being run by the original founding partners at that time. And those original founding partners had cut their teeth doing hard technology, switches and routers, looking for intellectual property defensibility, so patents and hard technical problems, trade secrets. And as the application, as the action moved to the application, you know, when we got to the Internet in the, you know, obviously there was 1.0 in the sort of mid-90s to late-90s. And then there was sort of 2.0 from early 2000s till I would argue that we're kind of moving. We're on the tail end of that slope. So that was a lot more about different kinds of defensibility. And one of the interesting things about it, and one of the things that created an opportunity for Union Square Ventures is that a lot of people didn't want to do that. A lot of people had, a lot of firms had; that were still dominated by the original founding partners, had let their younger partners run amok a little bit in the late 90s, and they got caught in the back end of the bubble. Dot-com bust. The dot-com bust. And then the founding partners were kind of saying, 'I told you so'in the 2003 and 2004 timeframe.

00:06:28 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, let's get back to our knitting.

00:06:29 [Brad Burnham]
Right. And so that left the field open for new firms. That really had conviction about the internet and about the applications layer. And I think we were one of those firms.

00:06:43 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, and that's when companies like Twitter, 2005 period, Uber, 2009, a little bit later, Facebook.

00:06:51 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, I would distinguish. I mean, Facebook was there, Twitter was there, Uber, I think, came along a little later. And I think Uber was going after some things a little bit different. The opportunities I think about, certainly the ones that, you know, we were investors in, in 2007, we did, in the space of six months, we did Tumblr, Twitter, Zynga, and Indeed, in the space of about six months. And so, and none of those were all that competitive. I mean, Tumblr we did with Spark, and Twitter. We were the only investor in the first round because everybody else had said, you know, if you get a deal with a carrier to pay for the SMS minutes and give you a business model, then we'll look at it. But nobody felt good about it.

00:07:43 [SPEAKER_2]
It's pretty hilarious. I remember talking to Ed Williams and he was picking between Sequoia and Union Square Ventures. And he was asking me to handicap between the two firms. And of course, Fred is one of my oldest friends and dearest friends in New York. And I was a Sequoia CEO at the time. So I was like, well. Fred's gonna put a lot of work in; like he's the hardest-working guy, and then Sequoia is this legacy company; I mean, you couldn't possibly do worse, but Sequoia didn't pull the trigger. It was a 30 million valuation; you guys put in 10 for a third or something like that.

00:08:10 [Brad Burnham]
So 30 or 40 million post-me, know it was less than that, and we put in less than that. But we owned about the amount that we would have if we had done it at the numbers that you said, yeah.

00:08:20 [SPEAKER_2]
It was, yeah, it was like for 20% or something like that. That's is that your biggest hit of your whole career?

00:08:25 [Brad Burnham]
Well, as you point out, I mean, Fred and I worked on that together, but that was really Fred's deal. I'd say the, you know, in terms of returns, one of the biggest hits would be Indeed. People don't think of that as a big deal, but that company took $5 million in primary capital and then sold, you know, as a unicorn. Wow. So they only took $5 million in. Yeah, primary capital. Ultimately, they did some secondary, but in terms of operating capital, they took $5 million.

00:08:56 [SPEAKER_2]
And they sold for over a billion? Yep. Wow, that's incredible. To what do you attribute that type of efficiency?

00:09:07 [Brad Burnham]
So two things. One, they had a very strong founding team. They had a combination of Ronnie Kahan and Paul Forster. Ronnie was the tech lead and the product genius, and he built a great technology team in Austin, Texas. And Paul was one of those.really driven and almost ruthless entrepreneurs when it comes to the efficiency with which they build the business. And the other thing, so great founding team that worked very well together. The other thing is that they were actually doing something pretty simple. And the business model had been pioneered by Google. It was paid search, but it was paid search in a very specialized niche that wasn't being well served by the dominant search engines. Employment ads were often buried underneath essentially in databases. So you had to actually tease out all the data rather than in the, I guess they called it the dark web back then, but it's not that dark of a web. Anyway, you had to scrape it and normalize it. Right. So Google didn't really do a good job of that, finding all of the opportunities and displaying them in an easily consumable way. But they did a great job of defining a business model. So they just basically used that business model and a new corpus of data.

00:10:31 [SPEAKER_2]
All right. When we get back from this quick break, I want to talk to you about crypto. Huge. And you guys were so early to that. Mega early. You guys got involved in Ethereum before it launched?

00:10:44 [Brad Burnham]
No, and we haven't really been involved in Ethereum, but we were the first, I think, in the first institutional round of Coinbase.

00:10:51 [SPEAKER_2]
All right, so when we get back, let's talk a little bit about crypto and if you're still believers in it or where you stand after this incredibly tumultuous two years in the crypto world when we get back on This Week in Startups. If you want the easiest cloud platform in the world to deploy, manage, and scale your applications, you're in luck. Because DigitalOcean has you covered. Over 150,000 businesses use them, and that makes them one of Inc.'s world's fastest growing startups. You get free round-the-clock tech support, and that's for all customers, regardless of spend. And there's a huge community that shares resources and tutorials. So you're going to get right in there and be up and running very quickly. It's business-ready and it's ready to scale with you. They have very straightforward billing, and you're not going to get dinged because you're in a different geo than other people. And you're always going to know what you'll pay. You'll never get dinged with that surprise bill like other providers. And their flat pricing structure is critically important for you. You don't want to get dinged because you're in a different geo than other people. Here's an incredible customer testimony from Content Ignite. Since moving to DigitalOcean, our setup is ultimately more capable than when we had before the migration. Downtime has become a rarity and our hosting costs have decreased by more than what?90%.Incredible. I hear this all the time from my startups. They save a ton of money and they get better service from DigitalOcean. I know this because Mitch Wehner, my pal, was on This Week in Startups eight years ago in 2010. When he was in marketing. And he said, what should I do with my career, J. Cal? And I said, hmm, why don't you go to Techstars or Y Combinator or another incubator, find the best startup you can and ask them if you can join. Well, he did. And he found DigitalOcean and he joined. Since that time, they've raised a ton of money from incredible venture firms like Andreessen Horowitz. And here is their offer just for the This Week in Startups community. You're going to get a Hyundai. A C note, a hundred dollar credit. Just go to do.co slash twist. Do .co slash T-W-I-S-T. That's cool that they got do .co. That's a good domain name. So do .co slash twist. Grab that hundy. Get that hundred dollars. Put it in your pocket. Go ahead and sign up for DigitalOcean. It's a great service. We use it. We love it. Congratulations to DigitalOcean and Mitch on all your tremendous success. And thanks for supporting This Week in Startups. That means a lot to me. Okay, let's get back to this incredible episode. Welcome back to This Week in Startups. I'm your host, Jason Calacanis. My guest today is Brad Burnham. You can follow him, @ BradUSV, because that's his firm, Union Square Ventures, that he co-founded back in 2003 after working at AT&T. Was it Bell Labs back then?

00:13:42 [Brad Burnham]
At Bell Labs, but I worked for a firm called AT&T Ventures, which was an independent venture capital partnership that was created to help nurture some Bell Labs technology and try and commercialize it. So, I worked a lot with teams out of the labs.

00:13:57 [SPEAKER_2]
Do you believe in corporate VC? Now that you're on the other side, do you think it's something every company should do? Or do you think it's something best left to the independent professional venture capitalists?

00:14:13 [Brad Burnham]
So, I think there are some corporations that do it pretty well. I think the corporations that do it best, and there are fewer and fewer of these, are the ones where the founders were entrepreneurs themselves and not professional managers, and so they appreciate what it means to build a company a little bit. I think that it's a really tough way. It's really tough to create synergies with corporations. I mean, everybody talks about that. Everybody says that's the goal of corporate VC. But one of my experiences at AT &T Ventures, and it's funny because I just ran into the guy who ran AT &T's network. His name is Frank Ianna. And back in the mid-90s, AT &T Ventures was an investor in a number of routing companies, including Juniper Networks. We tried to get Frank to test this equipment and potentially deploy it in the AT&T network. It was really hard to get him to do it. It's for a funny reason, but it makes a lot of sense when you think about it. He was measured on EBITDA performance, and Cisco was willing to discount their routers maybe 60% for AT&T. And the startups couldn't afford to give him a cash discount. They needed the cash flow, but they were willing to give him warrants. Sprint funded most of the build out of their network by taking warrants in the startup companies that they really enabled by implementing their technology in the network. And AT&T could have done the same thing, but didn't. So the point is that when you're trying to create those synergies in a corporate venture capital world, the incentives are all misaligned. There's generally no way for a senior executive in a corporation to get credit for creating balance sheet appreciation, but they're usually measured on EBITDA. So it's a tough combination of incentives.

00:16:21 [SPEAKER_2]
It also seems really difficult to give this group of executives 20% of whatever the growth of the investments are when this other group is getting some other compensation. And then what happens if they hit something like Twitter, where you wind up throwing off a billion, the 20% winds up being a billion dollars or something. This could really throw people for a loop. The CEO's like, I hired you folks, and now you're getting that. So most of those corporate ones don't give 20% carry. They give people salaries. I think that's true.

00:16:54 [Brad Burnham]
Some of them have a phantom carry program. Phantom carry. We actually had an interesting We were an independent venture capital partnership at AT &T with a sole limited partner. Part of the reason for that is that I had earlier been working with a team out of Bell Labs, and I'd spun it out and was very insistent on having real minority equity rights. I knew that AT&T would own a majority of that entity because of the technology, but I wanted minority equity rights because I didn't want the possibility of AT&T shutting it down or, you know, I wanted to be able to have a real run. And in order to get that done, it had to go through the board at AT&T. And this is a tiny little, I mean, we're talking about a company that maybe had an annual burn of million bucks. And so getting it spun out was a pain. But the guy who did it was a guy named Bob Kavner, who was the CFO at the time. And it took him so much energy to push that through. He said, 'I never want to do this again.'So I'm going to create a venture capital group that can sponsor these spinouts. I'm going to create a structure and I'm going to get out of the loop. But what happened was The, he decided based on the experience of, you know, getting a real, you know, Delaware corporation, a real C Corp, positioning it to take external equity, going through that whole process. He said, well, I'm going to create a venture capital group that looks like a venture capital group. So we were actually an independent venture capital group. We had a fee and a carry, and we made all of our own investment decisions. And I think that worked really well for AT&T Ventures back in the 90s. It was created in '92 and it ran through '99. During that time, we put about $350 million to work and returned about $1.2 billion. But as you say, toward the end of that, there's a series of management changes at AT&T, and they start looking at that and saying, well, wait a minute. Those economics are really pretty good, and maybe we should do that ourselves. So they took the $1.2 billion when they took over the activity. I took it over in about '99 and decided that they wanted to do significant investments, not these three to five million dollar investments, but we're AT&T, we want to move the needle. So they went long in late '99 with a billion two. It didn't work out very well.

00:19:27 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, timing, super important, isn't it?

00:19:31 [Brad Burnham]
I do think it's important. I think there are technology cycles. I think that there are There are times when there is really great opportunity in the venture business, and there are times when it's really tough. I actually think we're in a time that's pretty tough, particularly if you're trying to do consumer-facing web services.

00:19:52 [SPEAKER_2]
And why is it tough?

00:19:55 [Brad Burnham]
I think we are living in a world of very rapid consolidation around very dominant network effects, and that would be Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon. These are great companies. I have a great deal of respect for them, but they have enormous advantages relative to startups. We've seen a number of examples where we've pioneered a market, an opportunity, a space, a technology. Only to find that when one of these larger players enters that market, it's really hard to compete. They have huge advantages in terms of distribution.

00:20:33 [SPEAKER_2]
I mean, if you're in, if your Facebook comes to mind with stealing stories right out from under Snapchat. Sure.

00:20:39 [Brad Burnham]
Um, you know, well, it's not, I mean, I think it's not, no, I don't copy a pixel by pixel like that and take three swings at a bat.

00:20:48 [SPEAKER_2]
Oh, I thought that was slow.

00:20:50 [Brad Burnham]
Um, you know, I, I mean, I, I think it's a, I think that it's, you know, unfortunately, it's the way our market is structured. It's their responsibility to their shareholders to take advantage of the opportunities that they have to return as much as they can to their shareholders.

00:21:06 [SPEAKER_2]
But we haven't seen copying like that, like wholesale copying in a, it's in common.

00:21:13 [Brad Burnham]
I'm not going to, I'm not going to actually, I don't, I think it's a bigger problem. I think it's a, it's a market structure problem. And I think that. I think you're going to actually see increasing calls. You're already seeing an antitrust case against Apple in the App Store. You're going to see more of these. Obviously, there's a lot of conversation among policymakers about, are these institutions too strong? Are they too powerful? Are they reshaping the market?

00:21:36 [SPEAKER_2]
How do you think about that? I'm curious.

00:21:38 [Brad Burnham]
So the answer is, I think they are. But I think they got there legitimately. And I think that my experience of policymakers attempting to change the structure of markets historically has been pretty bad. So you can think of an IBM antitrust case that ended up being dismissed, a Microsoft antitrust case that really didn't have an impact.

00:22:08 [SPEAKER_2]
Other than probably driving the world's greatest entrepreneur at the time, Bill Gates, out of the business, just making him so hated globally that he just was like, 'enough.'Uh, I think he left because the joy got pulled out of the business during that antitrust thing. That's my theory; it became so arduous to be so hated-everybody's saying you have too much power, it's like, 'you know if you guys don't want me here, I'm just gonna go give all my money away and solve other problems.'

00:22:35 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, I mean, I'm not going to speculate on his motivation, but um, I think the more interesting thing to talk about is what actually did happen? You know, why? I mean, we don't think about Microsoft as a dominant incumbent today.

00:22:49 [SPEAKER_2]
Why not?

00:22:50 [Brad Burnham]
What happened? What changed? And it wasn't, okay, you could argue that forcing Microsoft to unbundle the browser, you know, allowed the internet to emerge. So that may have been a single policy move that they got right. But, you know, I don't think that the antitrust case that dragged out over 10 years ultimately really changed the structure of the market. What changed the structure of the market was the emergence of the internet. And that led to a shift in venue, if you will, from the desktop to the web. And when we moved processing to the web and we started to create a set of consumer services that were delivered from the web to a relatively you know, simple browser, all the action was on the server side. And so if I'm building an app on the server, I'm not going to use a binary operating system. I can't control my destiny. I can't control, I can't make changes. I'm going to use an open source operating system, right? So Linux became the dominant operating system on the browser side. Microsoft couldn't open source Windows, couldn't compete directly for that business.

00:24:01 [SPEAKER_2]
So the marketplace is stronger, and it may have dethroned the king.

00:24:05 [Brad Burnham]
Who knows? I'm speculating. I'd argue the same thing happened with IBM. If you think about what happened with IBM, they were playing catch-up in the PC world, and they did it by outsourcing all the components, and that had a de facto effect of creating these standard interfaces between the components, and all of a sudden it was possible to create a PC, for anyone to create a PC, and they outsourced an operating system from Microsoft. And that is what, and then that also ended up in a shift in venue, because we went from time sharing on the mainframe to distributed computing on the PC. And it was market forces again. Market forces.

00:24:43 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah, so we look at this Facebook situation. Before the break, you mentioned crypto, yeah. All right. When we get back from this quick break, we'll talk about crypto on This Week in Startups. Check out Launch Festival Sydney. Check out Launch Angel Summit. We love it because we can get a beautiful, customizable, mobile-friendly, sign up instantly. And it's all designed with search engine optimization built-in. You don't have to hire another consultant. And it's free and secure hosting with 24-7 award-winning customer support. We love Squarespace. They've been a long-running supporter of This Week in Startups. And the product is exceptional. Go to squarespace.com right now and get a free trial. When you're ready to launch, use the offer code TWIST, T-W-I-S-T, and you will save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. I know you don't need to save the money if you're listening to this program in all likelihood, but I want you to use that TWIST code if you can. And I want you to do me a favor right now. A lot of people say, 'hey, J. Cal, thanks for the podcast.'Thanks for doing it twice a week for 10 years. Is there any way I can help you? Yes, there is a way. Go use Squarespace. And go ahead and say thank you at Squarespace on Twitter for supporting independent media like This Week in Startups. It's an amazing, amazing product. And by the way, they now support over 200 extensions. So if you want to be baller like me and do founder .university or angel .university or use any of those cool new extensions, get on there. Try them out. There's lots of beautiful new extensions and, of course, all those great customizable templates. And one thing people don't know is that Squarespace, some people don't know, Squarespace put in incredible e-commerce functionality. So you can sell stuff, open up a store, no biggie deal. Okay, back to the program. Welcome back. My guest today, Brad Burnham. And we're talking about the state of the big four and historically antitrust market forces. Now we're here. We're looking at crypto. We're looking at Facebook being super powerful. Facebook seems to be the one directly in the crosshairs.

00:26:59 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, I think they're directly in the crosshairs in part because politicians are very sensitive to things that affect politics.

00:27:06 [SPEAKER_2]
Yeah.

00:27:07 [Brad Burnham]
And so I think that's probably the reason that Facebook is being called down to Washington. But I think that look at Amazon. If you're a manufacturer of paper towels, You know, you're shipping a lot of paper towels through Amazon today and Amazon decides, hmm, paper towels. I can have those made in China for less than, you know, I'm paying. I can pick up some margin here.

00:27:33 [SPEAKER_2]
Amazon basic towels. Here we go.

00:27:34 [Brad Burnham]
There you go. And so I think, you know, being able to direct demand to any supplier that you can negotiate with and then even to yourself, I think that's an incredibly powerful position.

00:27:48 [SPEAKER_2]
And I guess their counter is, well, we only have the small percentage of overall commerce, so therefore it's not a big deal. And it's in the best interest of consumers because we're lowering prices.

00:27:59 [Brad Burnham]
Yeah, I think you could make that argument with Google and with Apple. I mean, a lot of these, Facebook is free, right?

00:28:06 [SPEAKER_2]
Apple phones are not getting free. You can't make it with Apple, though. Their prices keep going up. Isn't that amazing? Just as a sidebar, that Apple has been able to raise the price of the iPhone like $100 every 18 months and they're just boiling us like frogs?

00:28:21 [Brad Burnham]
Are you Android or Apple? I'm actually Android. Are you always Android or did you go? Always been Android. I grew up working with Bell Labs, working with Unix, believing in open source, believing in open systems, believing that open systems create. Emergent, decentralized, bottom-up innovation. I have a huge conviction that that's the best kind of innovation. And so I've always wanted to work with the most open systems. Neither of these systems are particularly open, but Android is a little bit more open than Apple. You know, you could actually make the argument it may not, you know, there are things about the openness in this world that, you know, end up being somewhat problematic, but I still-Like viruses and hacks and all this stuff. Yeah. I'd still rather- be um in an open system; I think that you, I think you have a faster pace of innovation and all that, yeah, I mean the new Pixel phone always seems like they're just slightly better than the iOS devices. I don't know, you know, I've never actually compared them, alright?

00:29:24 [SPEAKER_2]
So let's get into it. Crypto, you guys were very early; you did Coinbase when...

00:29:29 [Brad Burnham]
I don't know, a couple years back, dates yeah, more than a couple of years.

00:29:33 [SPEAKER_2]
We've been in it for a while, and you got early conviction around crypto Because you believe in open source, bottom-up. And this is as open-source, bottom-up as it's ever been in the history of mankind. These were anonymous white papers with nobody in charge; consensus building for how the system runs. How does a venture capitalist capitalize on a system written by a pseudonym? And on a white paper where nobody's in charge and whoever gets the most hashes gets to decide what happens next. I mean, it seems like the place VCs can't participate where it's harder.

00:30:16 [Brad Burnham]
Is it? You know, I think if you carry it to its logical conclusion, you can make that argument that that, that it will be impossible to, um, get a venture-style return. I think we're a long way from that today. Um, I think that, um, so there's, you know, there's, there's fun, there's foundational change. Um, there's layer two chains and then there's applications or dApps that are being built on top of these chains. I think that, um, I think we're going to be in a period, you're one of the few people that remember centralized services on the internet like AOL and CompuServe. I find myself trying to explain to people that we're sort of in the 1993 timeframe in crypto. We still have a very immature infrastructure. You know, when people say, what can you do with crypto that you can't do with a normal database? The answer is everything you can do with crypto, you can do better with a normal database today. And except distributing trust, which you can't do with a centralized database.

00:31:34 [SPEAKER_2]
Why is distributing trust such a mind-blowing, laudable, and or important innovation? Because I know that you believe that, and maybe some other people believe it less. But what is it because that seems to be the core of the people who came up with it. They wanted something that had this different trust model rather than trust in the government.

00:31:53 [Brad Burnham]
Well, I don't think I mean we could talk about or monetary policy, you know, whether or not it's monetary policy. I think that Crypto is so much more important than currency or than monetary policy. I think it's a model for developing applications in a much more decentralized way that allow for much greater participation at the edges of that innovation, that platform. So go all the way back to, since we're having fun going back here, go all the way back to Microsoft and think about the world that existed in the mid-90s, there was probably 2,500 PC software ISVs, independent software vendors, producing word processors and spreadsheets and everything else. You had to pick one of 12 different word processors in the 80s. By the end of the 90s, there was one. Yeah.

00:32:47 [SPEAKER_3]
No more WordPerfect.